Focus Group 1, 28.01.98
C1C2 Mixed gender


Participants: 		J, 30, bank clerk
			Ray, 47, estate agent
			C, 25, secretary
			S, 24, nursery school teacher
			P, 42, unemployed
			R, 50, design engineer

Comments:	Generally difficult to get going. P talked a lot, R very little. C made most interesting contributions? Could perhaps have got group going more quickly by talking more directly about everyday consumption practices?

	Problems experienced with laptop - very slow - a cause for concern. Consider using CompuServe rather than UCL server, and purchasing faster modem if service providers will support it.
	
Apparent lack of familiarity with Internet among virtually all participants.
	
Gender mix - generally worked okay, but women talked more than (older) men. Slight impression that getting information from men about their own consumption practices and thoughts on consumption would be easier without women there.
	
Resistance to e-commerce mainly in terms of slowness of technology, access to technology and need to have physical contact (or a demonstration of physical contact) with goods purchased.


LM: That should be okay
PL: A bit of feedback, (coughs) (4.0) So we’re just, we’re doing a project getting people’s sort of reactions to and thoughts about... er, developments in electronic commerce, as it’s called, or shopping on the Internet. graphic and design Ah, so um, we’re just interested in ah, getting people’s sort of, thoughts about it and where they think it’s going and what sort of, they think is going on with this sort of new technology and, um, in general, really. So do you want to, should we go around the group and just introduce ourselves as they do in focus groups so I 
?:  We’ve had plenty of time to [laughs] introduce ourselves while we’ve been running around in (…) [laughs]
PL: That’s true, that’s true. Well, I’m Pete
R: R
C: C
PL: Hi
S: S
P: P
LM: I’m Liz
Ra: R
J: J 
PL: Hi (.)Well, um, if we could start by just going around and saying how familiar you are with computer technology generally um how much you use it, where you use it, what kind of things you use it for, that sort of thing. And then, er, how frequently you use er different kinds of computer services and so on
C: Um, I use only computers at work
PL: Right
C: Erm sort of, Excel, Lotus packages, spreadsheets, sort of fax covers, entering on orders. Um we had at my old job they just, they had a thing called an intranet, I don’t know if that’s, I don’t know if that’s any connection to the Internet but we didn’t, there was only certain people that could actually access the Internet 
PL:  Right 
C:  Which was like graphics and design and people like that, so sort of I’ve got a, knowledge about it, but I’ve never actually gone in and sort of surfed the web and (…) 
PL:  Right 
C:  And that’s it
PL: Okay
S: Um, I’m a teacher so it’s basically the computers that we’ve got in school which is an Acorn erm we use drawing programs of Advance, and erm (…) and writing programs for Advance erm but I also use the laptop which we’ve got two of at school as well for my own personal work
PL: Mmm, is the school connected to the Internet?
S: Ah, about to be, they are just trying to get in at the moment and er
PL: Mmmm (.) mmm 
S: Er (…)
PL: Right
P: Before I had my three children I used to work in computers. Since I’ve had my children my only real connection with them is when I help out in the school
PL: Right
P: And I help out with year 1 and year 2
PL: Right
P: And the children show me how it works
[laughs]
P: And we’ve not got a laptop or anything sophisticated at home but we’ve just got a couple of those, um, the the sort of the Sega things and things like 
PL:  Right 
P:  That they can play games on
PL: Right
P: But I (…) the children are now telling me (.) this is really easy, you’re really, [laughs] you know, silly
PL: Yeah
P: And I’m thinking, yes, I know I am [laughs]. And that is, that’s it basically
PL: And they’ve got computers in the classrooms where you 
P:  Yeah, every classroom has got
PL: Right
P: A computer
PL: Right
P: Every classroom from reception right up to year 6 they use the computers for various projects and everything, they work in groups and I’ve been involved in a lot of that but it frightens me to be honest now
PL: Right
P: Eleven years on
PL: Yeah
P: From when I gave up
PL: It’s interesting how comfortable kids are with that isn’t it 
P:  Absolutely fantastic
PL: Just amazing mm yes, I’ve got a four year old whose just uses the mouse like (…)
?: Um, I know nothing about computers at all, all I used to know about erm, about eight years ago was a name called electron with like, the loading the tape and whatever
PL: Right
?: Um, so I haven’t been used to them at all. My two children, erm don’t live with me they they’ve got a computer my eldest one’s at Hertford University
PL: Right
?: So she’s doing a lot on that but um I wouldn’t know where to start basically
PL: [laughs] Right
?: (…) to er use them at work, um, mainly er multi packages like Word and Excel perhaps when I’m there I’ll actually use that. Um, a few (…) from work as well, CC (…) and all in one er we’ve just started an intranet as well
PL: Right
?: Which I’ve got a bit of an idea about but uh (.) it’s early days so
PL: Yeah
?: (…) you know (…)
PL: Yeah I think a lot of firms are just starting up with that (.) okay
?: Um, we use it for graphic design so we’ve got um (…) desktop publishing
PL: Right
?: (…) design, animation, ah we’ve got the intranet, we’re also connected to the Internet. 
PL: Oh right
?: And I’ve got a computer at home
PL: Right and are you connected to the Net at home as well?
?: No
PL: Do you have access to the Net
?: Yeah
PL: At work?
?: Mmm 
PL: Do you, do you use that?
?: We do use it, we use it for pulling, going out and browsing and pulling bits of really (…) graphics and (…) graphics and also we create CD-ROMs and we get into the Internet as well
PL: What about shopping on the Net, have you tried that?
?: Ah, no, never tried shopping on the Net [laughs]
PL: Okay well, we’ll get a chance to try it in a little while. (.) Have you, ah (.) just to broaden it out, have you, sort of, heard about these developments, to shop
?: Hmm
?: Yeah
PL: Can we talk about what you’ve, sort of, heard or (.) how to
C: Just through magazines really, saying like the future of shopping, like a lot of women’s magazines like Cosmo, or things like that, have got like articles about really just sort of the future of shopping and it’s not only, sort of, just the Internet, they’ve got all futuristic gadgets that they do anything, and it’s not actually a lot of gadgets and that’s that’s the only place I’ve ever, I’ve ever read about it
P: My mother-in-law watches QVC, which I think is a Sky, or a er cable channel, and if she wants to order something she doesn’t even have to wait for the operator or whoever it is on the end of the phone to answer, she dials the number, then she taps in her PIN number on her phone
PL: Right
P: Then she taps in the order number and that is automatically debited to her account and dispatched within 24 hours. And my father-in-law’s not very pleased about that
[laughs]
P: [laughs] Definitely, ‘cause she sits there all day watching it 
?:  Buying things
P: [laughs] All day, [laughs]. And that’s all I know about sort of, telephone type shopping
PL: Right, right
P: [laughs]
PL: That’s another way in which it’s developed 
P:  Yeah
PL:  In that particular form of it
?: I saw a programme on television that was talking about um, supermarkets and that doing it over the computer [coughing] delivering food food but this programme goes on to talk about Tesco’s and um what it talks about doing, I think Tesco’s are doing it now, aren’t they
C: Yeah, I saw something about that as well near me actually 
?:  Yeah, yeah, in some areas that they’re actually delivering, they’re ordering on their computer and then sort of, five hours later they deliver (…)
PL: Yeah, yeah
P: Mmm and Iceland
Tog: That’s the other one I saw 
P: Advertised in a magazine, they mentioned that.
PL: Yeah Tescos are running a trial, I don’t think its reached Southgate yet 
?: No, I don’t think so
P: Mm nothing reached Southgate for (…)
[laughs]
?: The west countries and what, Bristol or something like that
P: Mmm, unless you’re a hairdresser or an estate agent you’re not going to land up in Southgate for a while. It’s like a skeleton town now, everything’s gone. Over the years it’s it really has everything’s sort of closed down, right down the high road it’s just now it’s Asda’s and it’s the station and the charity shops in between and that’s it. 
?: (…) wine-bars
P: That’s it restaurants, cafes, wine-bars and hairdressers, nothing else
?: Charity shops
P: Charity shops. That’s it. Hmm
PL: On the other hand it might it a good place for home delivery of groceries
P: Oh yeah, probably
PL: People could order it over 
P:  Yeah, probably.
PL: Is there, have you heard anything else about, um, shopping
S: There was a (…) on the radio yesterday actually about erm you can get your own CD through the Internet, you can choose which, which songs you want (.) to put on your CD
P: Really
S: Yeah
P: Really
S: Yeah, so instead of buying a CD where you don’t listen to half of it 
P:  You hate ninety percent of it ?
S: Yeah, you can actually go through it, I think it was just indie songs at the moment, and then it’s going on, developing into classical ones
PL: That’s interesting
S: I heard that on the radio yesterday
PL: Was that, I mean was that a service that was specifically off the Internet as it were, was it 
S:  I think so, yeah 
PL: ‘Cause I’ve never heard of it
S: You went through the Internet and um chose which songs you wanted and then went back to like the main Internet, I don’t know which company was doing it, and then they’d process the CD and then send it out to you
PL: Mm yes. Anyone anyone heard of anything else about
?: I heard of Barclay Square
PL: Right
?: Erm that’s about it, I’ve just heard of it, you know heard of it and I don’t know what services you could get off of it but erm probably credit card services (…) banking services, I suppose that’s a kind of shopping in the end
PL: Right, well we we might have a look at Barclay Square, in fact, I think, shall we have a go at it? Just have a look at how it works and a look at a few sights, see what you think. (4.0) I just have to set up the computer
[laughs]
PL: So, has anyone used a modem like this before?
?: Yeah
PL: So this is a modem (…) telephone system
?: You’ve got a fax noise
Tog: Yeah, yeah
PL: Yeah, it’s very similar isn’t it
P: It’s not very nice noise, actually [laughs]
?: Can you turn the sound off? Is it possible to turn the sound off?
PL: No you can’t
?: Are you sure? Not like some of the games 
PL: I don’t know why they don’t turn the sound off actually, it’d be a good idea (.) it’s a very raucous sound okay so that, the modem’s now connected this to the to the site, so now what we do is, do you know where Netscape is on here?
?: Mmm (…)
P: I got my children for Christmas, one of the V-Tec, which is obviously only a toy
PL: Right
P: But it’s exactly the same um, it fits in with the national curriculum and everything it’s got exactly the same keyboard (…) in this sense but you can do all sorts of things (…)
P: It’s good that, ‘cause if you’re a teacher, it’s astonishing 
?:  They pick up
?: How quickly they (…)
PL: Poor Liz is having a bit of a 
?:  Is that the
PL: That is the (…)
P: It’s the twiglets that done it [laughs] we’re entering the twiglet zone. The twiglets are looking at the stars, they’ve gone [laughs] (4.0)
PL: okay well yeah, do you want to, can we, sort of, come around so we can all see the screen. (…) [laughs] Right, so this is a this is what’s called an Internet browser, this program that we’ve just gone into. So through the modem we’re connected now to the Internet, but you need a program called a browser which is what enables you to go to different places on the Internet
?: Mmm
[coughs]
PL: And this is our browser now... ah now, if you you know, say what you think of it as it comes out, really. But this is it, you can see it’s, what the computer’s doing now is loading down information. Which is the browser program itself, on the phone so we can see the modem flickering away. And here it is, now what we can do on this browser is actually, one of the things we can do here, if you can see here, is a thing called location. And we can actually go to anywhere in the world to a particular website if we want to. And so we’ve er loaded some addresses, as they’re called, this is a huge address, it’s actually the address of the, of the browser, the site of the browser. We can go to an Internet address
P: Its like Big Brother, isn’t it? [laughs] In your living room [laughs] I’m here
PL: Well, except I think we’re watching them rather than [laughs] I hope
P: It’s a bit like Big Brother though isn’t it, I mean it’s there isn’t it? 
?: Yeah
PL: There it is
P: It’s a bit scary...
?: Well in that case you’ll want Bill, Bill Clinton (…) dot com, something like that, don’t we [laughs]
?: Any trousers you want to check? [laughs]
PL: (…) well, maybe after the focus group on, on teleshopping we could check out what’s happening with Bill Clinton. (.) Now, okay, well you mentioned Barclay 
?:  Barclay Square
PL: Barclay Square, there it is
P: Look at that
PL: So what we’ve done before you see, we’ve been surfing the web 
P: Right
PL: And looking at various 
P:  Brilliant
PL: New sites, and then you can store their addresses in this part of the program and then you can go directly to them later, if you want to. So we going here to Barclay Square. Er there we are, can I get that? (6.0) What do you think about how it’s working?
C: It’s slow
PL: Yeah
?: Depends what gear you’ve got, I suppose
P: Well, I’m confused, anyway [laughs]
?: What charges it up? 
?: Local charges, so (.) the price is cheap
?: Oh right
P: Is it?
?: Yeah, doesn’t matter where you go
P: Oh right
PL: It’s a local call
?: It’s a local call. So if you go to America, (.) if you’re in America they don’t pay local calls, they get it free
PL: Yeah, that would be great if we 
?:  Yeah, it would
PL: If we had that
?: Yeah, yeah, that’s right 
LM:  There was this thing where some cable companies were trying to get people by doing that, and then people 
?:  That, that’s why Americans use it, ‘cause it’s all free
P: Good grief 
PL: Yeah because what we’re doing is linking up to a local supplier of the Internet. And that local supplier is then linking all around the world. But we only pay for the local call. Right so here’s, here’s Barclay Square. Does someone want to have a go? (3.0) [laughs] Come on, have a go. (4.0) So you can go 
S:  (…) isn’t it?
PL: Yeah
S: And how do you do that, just go on here?
PL: Just on there and then click this side, that’s it. (7.0) So why do you think it is that slow? 
?: (…)
C: It takes time to load, doesn’t it? Whatever you’re on.
PL: Mmm
C: I thought (.) the quicker it is on the memory you’ve got isn’t it? I 
?:  The size of your er computer as well
PL: Right. (3.0) Right so here’s the, we’re browsing it and these are the different sites, kinds of things that you can (.) shop (.) for on this particular site. Do you want to try one of them?
S: It’s not got nothing to do with Barclays (…) [laughs]
?: You’d be surprised [laughs]
PL: (3.0) Well, that’s right, because you you were saying that you thought it would be primarily financial services, on, on this site, but in fact it’s (.) a whole range of products (.)
?: Argos?
PL: Well if you come over to here
?: Oh
PL: And see, sorry to have conned you [laughs] (.) then come down (2.0)
?: Toys R’Us (…)
PL: Now if you want to go to one of these, you just go to either that part or that part, say Toys R’Us, there, yeah and click on that. And now we’re going to go to Toys R’Us
P: Order them without being beaten up [laughs]
?: I escaped [laughs] it was 4 o’clock in the morning but I did escape [laughs] (8.0)
P: What’s, what’s these percentage things that are coming up at the bottom, modem sent up 94 k 
PL: Right
P: Or whatever?
PL: That’s the, how much of the message that’s coming through, is, has got through so far
P: Right
PL: So its loading down this site, now
P: Oh right
PL: This is, this is Toys R’Us’ website.
?: Uhuh
PL: It’s their website, and it’s just loading down and it’s just how much of that there is to come (.)
C: So when you call the Internet up, everybody’s got the same options, you don’t pay for certain (.) you know, for example, you’ve got a computer program, sometimes you don’t buy the whole program do you, you buy what your company needs 
PL:  Right
C: So if you buy into the Internet do you get access to every single website and so does 
P: Really, god
C: Everybody else once your (.)
PL: Well, um er generally speaking, yeah, that’s right. You can go anywhere in the world, although there are some restrictions. So some er browsers don’t have access to certain parts of the net. But outside of that, yeah, you can, you can go where you like. Somehow we’ve ended up in Toy’s R’Us [laughs] 
?: We could be more adventurous perhaps [laughs]
PL: We could have gone to the White House [laughs] and checked out what’s there 
?:  (…) [laughs]
PL: So now the document’s, the document’s done, we can see what Toys R’Us are doing. We’ve not looked at this one, have we Liz?
LM: No
PL: Ah (…)
LM: I think it’s just one of the ones you, you maybe click on it and it just, you know, it’s like a front bit. And you 
PL:  Ah yes
LM: Click on it and you’ll just go through into
PL: It’s just like a front page. Now we’re going through into the website. What do you think of the, er the graphic of the Internet. Oop (…) It’s not bad is it?
C: It’s very crude 
PL: Yeah. (14.0) So do you think the speed of it is 
?: It would put me right off
PL: Yeah [laughs]
P: It could get on my nerves, sitting there waiting
?: Mmm
PL: Really?
?: Mmm
PL: Even though 
?:  Especially not knowing you’d be waiting for it as well 
?:  Is it the machine or the, just the erm
P: I’d get in the car
?: Sort of busyness of the line?
PL: Well it’s, it’s a combination of things. Actually the speed of the machine doesn’t make a great deal of difference. It’s principally er how many other users there are on using the web at one time. And the the speed of the modem, that’s the speed of the message coming in (4.0). They could make it faster by (.) building faster modems
?: Mmm
PL: Which they’re working on, (3.0) but it will really speed up when they, when they get digital cables into people’s homes
?: Mmm
PL: And then they can send more than one, the trouble with this cable is that only one piece of information at a time can come through (.) 
?: Ah, right
?: Do your shopping at two in the morning
PL: And this is another thing that happens on the Internet, you get crashes
?: What’s this one?
?: Oh
PL: So this is an application error
P: Oh dear
PL: There’s some problem with (…) [laughs]
?: You wait this long and then it crashes
PL: You wait that long and then you can’t order because the, the whole program’s, oh maybe it’s not crashed. We got back in somehow
S: What normally happens then? Do you have to go back out of it to come?
PL: Right
P: It looks like it’s gone back to the beginning though isn’t it? It’s doing the same thing again
PL: No, it’ll work (…)
S: It’s been doing, it’s, this bit’s been the same, hasn’t it
P: Yeah
C: Yeah
S: It’s quite boring, you’re just waiting for the maps
P: Yeah, just waiting for that bit to change
?: (…) get three [laughs]
?: Yeah (…) get a jaffa to complete [laughs]
P: Yeah [laughs]
?: It’ll look like a snake not a giraffe
PL: It’s stuck there somewhere, maybe we can move on and not wait for him to finish. Or, so now look you see, we can choose electronic products, board games and so on and this is where you get closer to an actual product, hopefully. Electronic connection toys (14.0)
C: I would’ve thought it’d be more popular at somewhere like Christmas where people just can’t bothered to wait, and find parking
PL: Right
C: And that’s when you would probably sit here and wait rather than go and sit in the queues and queues for this and the queues for that (3.0) 
?: It’d almost be quicker to drive there I suppose wouldn’t it? [laughs]
C: Yeah, it would really [laughs]
PL: Well, I mean there’s a, is there a Toys R’Us near here?
?: Yeah
?: Yeah
?: (…) there’s one at Enfield on the Great King’s Road
C: Oh yeah, on the industrial estate
?: Yes
PL: Well that might be a bad example, but you can think of er, because you can get that quickly in the car, but you can think of other sites, because you can go anywhere in the world
S: It’s like, my boyfriend’s a James Bond fan and he’s always, you know, going to this place and that place
PL: Right
S: And ordering things from them because you can’t get it over here
PL: Right, right, so that’s one example of a product you can get in another country and just get it shipped over (.) or the CD thing that you were talking about earlier I don’t know where that would be [laughs]
LM: I think we’ve go a CD site erm, saved on that Pete?
PL: Oh right. I think, are you, are you thinking we should abandon ToysR’Us (…) [laughs]
LM: It’s hard to know, but I just wonder
PL: Do you want to choose another site?
LM: Well, see what we’ve got, see (…) there’s any Southhampton football supporters, then er
PL: Yeah, that would be (…)
LM: Yeah, there’s
?: Marks and Spencer’s home shopping
PL: Oh right (…)
?: There’s the Portsmouth one there as well you see [laughs] (…)
C: I think Marks and Spencer’s is more relevant to us than Toys R’Us
?: Yeah
LM: Well, let’s try Mark’s and Spark’s although I seem to remember there wasn’t much shopping going on there, just a lot of pictures
?: What about the Argos one, would that be a good one?
LM: Haven’t tried that one I don’t think, yet, no (…)
PL: No, there’s too many people queueing for that one I think
(laughter)
P: Yeah, yeah, probably
?: Taking back refunds
?: Paid for the item
?: Yeah
?: Haven’t got it yet
?: Hmm (.)
?: This cardboard 
PL:  It’s stuck on Toys R’Us
?: This brown cardboard box is below standard, I want it replaced
C: So say for example, say it’s stuck, can you not just like 
?: Take it out (…)
?: Take it all off
PL: (…) to Marks and Spencers’. (.)Yeah, you can switch it off and then start again
?: Start again
PL: Just go through the routine again if we have the number (.) But it is actually looking for, see it gives you a little report here, it’s looking for Marks and Spencers’
S: Do you pay to actually be connected to the Internet group then, or as you say, it’s just (.) a minute rate or whatever
PL: Well, you’ve got to pay your phone bill, cause it just goes on 
S: Yeah
?: Your phone bill, and stuff, so there’s, there’s that side of it. But there’s also a payment usually to the server that you’re using, so we’re using a particular server here and you pay them a rent every month
P: So what happens while it’s searching
PL: You’re paying
P: Clocking up
PL: It, it 
P:  Ooh
PL: All the time you’re on it’s, it’s just
P: Ooh, god
PL: Are you concerned about that [laughs]
P: Oh, just a bit
PL: It’s a problem about it being slow
P: Well it is slow, and if you are paying
?: Especially if you forget about it and go in the other room
P: Exactly. Or if one of the kids decide they’re going to bang in Toys R’Us and then go off in the other room and forget about it
?: That wouldn’t be, that wouldn’t be blocking your phone line?
PL: Yes 
P: Would it really?
?: (…)
PL: If anyone rings these people now, their phone will be engaged
P: Really?
PL: It’s just as if we were making a phone call
P: Oh
?: But you could have another phone line put in
PL: Yes
P: You could have another phone line presumably to keep you in touch with the ordinary person [laughs]
P: You don’t want mother-in-law on the screen do you? [laughs]
?: That’s, that’s extra cost 
P:  And you want to get your (…) line [laughs] (…) get a photograph of her to come out, oh, scary
PL: Are we having any trouble, any 
P:  It’s still looking
PL: Luck getting through to, yeah, its still looking for Marks and Spencers’
P: But you said this was charged at a local rate
LM: You could exit, Pete, go back in and try a different book mark perhaps, I don’t know
PL: Yes (4.0). 
LM: Maybe 
PL:  Let’s try a different bookmark, anyway I think, this is ludicrous
P: This is all cause you got lost at Southgate station [laughs] it’s got confused it’s gone round the roundabout four times
PL: Oh what about erm 
LM:  Saints’, Saints’ football club is actually quite quick I think I seem to remember, although I (.) [laughs]
S: Might not be tonight [laughs]
LM: Yeah [laughs]
LM: Oh well, gosh
PL: Is it usually quicker?
LM: Yeah
PL: (…) quicker
?: It’s got sound on this one
LM: Hmm?
?: It’s got sound on this one
Tog: No
PL? Some of them have got sound though
?: I don’t know, I don’t think Saints’ have, no
PL: It ought to have the Saints’ song [laughs]
LM: [laughs] Probably, I don’t know, maybe not repeatable (5.0)
S: It’s easier tonight though, anyway, isn’t it because you’ve just done us a list of what we can choose from?
PL: Yeah
S: I mean, when you first, I mean I just am drawn away from my boyfriend’s cause it’s it’s like jam packed, and it’s like well where do I go from?
PL: Right, right, well um
C: People do this as 
?:  Toys R’Us
C: A full time job though, don’t they surfing and that (…) a lot of companies, like big companies 
PL: Right
C: They had, well (.) um, my old company had in like graphics, there was two guys that all they did all day was, was surf this
PL: What, as part, that was their job?
C: That was their job
?: Really (…)
C: That was their job, to find out what their competitors were doing, do a report on what like Nike were doing, what Adidas were doing and sort of like saying what maybe we should be doing if we, if they made a site
PL: Do you think there’d be any uses like that, that sort of the ord, ordinary people could put it to, not, not specifically companies? (.) So, I mean, we can find out prices for example
C: Hmm
PL: Do you think that would be useful?
?: Cut out the middle man
?: What, and get (…)
PL: Right
S: I think if you’re looking for something expensive or something you know, you’re not going to spend and waste your time on 10.99 you know, CD that you might get for 8.99 on the Internet. I think if you’re going for something expensive
PL: Right
S: Then it’s worth
PL: If you were going for an expensive product
S: Mmm
PL: You could, sort of, look around
S: Yeah
PL: I mean, what do you, what about, what would you normally do when you’re shopping for something, do you, do you have a favourite shop that you go to?
?: Yeah, yeah, I think so
S: You always go and compare
?: Depends on the product I guess
PL: Right
?: I don’t [laughs]. Once I’ve (…) I go, I, I’m not 
?:  And the cost of the product as well
PL: So if you’re going for an expensive product you’d spend time?
?: Yeah. I mean, I mean say just you know just it may be a poor example going for a car
PL: Yeah
?: You wouldn’t go to one garage ‘cause you like the garage
?: No
?: You know, you could (.) do the normal thing, look through the papers, look through the erm local papers, the big papers
PL: Right
?: You know, the big mags
PL: Right, well, the papers er might get on here. I mean for example Loot
?: Mmm
PL: Has got a site on here
?: Yeah I think the Exchange & Mart is on there as well, the sort of 
?:  It’s the same if you’re looking for a hi-fi, you know, you’d go to sort of like Dixon’s and Curry’s and different ones and see what prices, different ranges they’ve got
PL: Right
C: Would I? [laughs]
PL: What?
C: I must be the only woman in the world that doesn’t browse around a shop [laughs]
C: I see it, I buy, I go home [laughs]. I can’t bear wandering around aimlessly because you always, nine times out of ten, go back to the shop you first saw it in. So I’ve got to be the one and only person who just pays and gets it and comes home
PL: Right, I mean one reason for that is that the, all of the retailers know what they’re all charging for different products and they can sort of
?: Mmm
PL: Do you see any possibility in, that the Internet might change that? Find out about that?
?: Could be, if you have maybe some small distributors go in there
PL: Right
?: You could, um, pick up a bargain [laughs]
C: A lot of the big people though, don’t they, they promise you that if you find it cheaper anywhere else, I mean J Lewis have had that policy since the day
P: For years
C: So you know that if you’re going to go to J Lewis and buy hardware, you know that you’re not going to find it cheaper anywhere else
?: Yes, yes, it’s just (…) that this has different items then, they’ve got different, different models that’s all and there might be something you see that er
?: Oh, this one isn’t plugged in, sorry, we can’t give you a refund (3.0)
PL: We’re going try Loot now (4.0)
LM: We’re going to try [laughs]
?: Oh
LM: Ooh
LM: That’s a bit quicker
?: Ah, here we go (4.0)
S: That was much quicker wasn’t it?
?: Yeah
?: Yeah, that was good
PL: Anyone else want to have a go?
?: (…) the Saints’ going on in there I think (3.0)
PL: Come on, have a go with it
?: (…) oooh’ oh, press my button (.) go on behave, behave [laughs]
?: Uh-oh [laughs]
?: Oh
PL: Oh, that’s interesting, you’ve got into the middle of the program somehow
?: Its terrific, isn’t it?
PL: Yep, if you go up here and close that bit, just on the bottom there (…)
C: (…) very similar, isn’t it, to every other program really with like your opening files and closing down
PL: Right
S: Yeah
C: It’s not 
PL: Right
C: That bit I don’t think, I don’t think it’s difficult to operate 
PL: (…) and so on
C: Yeah, it, the main real, real difference, like you’ve got
PL: Right
C: All you’re icons at the top and (.) you’ve got your Edit and your View
PL: Right, right
C : You know that doesn’t change
PL: Mmm
?: That’s getting there
PL: Where did you go to?
?: Gone to browse I think it was
LM: Mmm, it’s just (…)
?: Come on (9.0) oh right, oh here we go, you are searching for
?: Heartsearch, oh my god
P: Heartsearch and romance [laughs]
PL: If you click on this little arrow here
?: Oh good
PL: You’ll get more of that (.) That’s it (.)That’s limiting the search, but you can, if you go into this box then you can put in whatever you like
?: Right, okay
PL: You were saying that (…)
?: Right, what are we going to look for? Someone, someone choose a product
PL: Yeah, right
C: Greenhouse
?: Gr, alright
C: [laughs] Well our firm wants one actually, so if there’s a number on there, just let me jot it down
?: Take it down [laughs]
?: Is it looking? Is it looking?
PL: Yeah, it’s got something, good time to buy a greenhouse [laughs]
P: Greenhouse, absolutely
LM: How far will they go to get
C: Well, they live in Woking 
?:  Greenland [laughs], no, houseland
P: That’s true (9.0)
?: Are they’re any greenhouses?(.) I thought they’d come up quite quickly (.)
P: I don’t know what’s the name, (…), baby bouncers, cots, no-one wants any 
LM:  I’d be quite impressed if they had a greenhouse open (.) ah
P: Aha, we’ve got a, no, we’ve got (.)
?: Yeah
LM: Fires and heaters
P: Stoves
?: Fires and heaters?
P: Coal-burning, (…) cast iron with a chimney, never used, ideal for garage (.)
?: Ah
?: The thing is though, that I mean, it’s erm
P: Ah, here we are, greenhouse, search for greenhouse
?: So what’s it doing now
?: It’s still fires, heaters, gardening, oh, here we go
?: Yes
?: Look at that
?: Aluminium greenhouse [laughs]
P: Aluminium greenhouse with sliding door
PL: That’s it
P: Sixty-five pounds buys dismantle and collect, there, look we’ve got greenhouse 
?: Get on that phone
S: Hampshire, Hertfordshire, East Midlands [laughs] where’s the next one?
?: There you are, go and get in the car right away
P: Off we go [laughs]
PL: So that’s not bad is it?
P: That’s brilliant [laughs] that’s brilliant, look
PL: A different, you get a choice, you get 
P: Look, look
?: Here, look at that one
?: I really
P: Here, look, greenhouse five pounds [laughs] that’s a louvre window, yeah
?: It looks nice
?: Yeah, multi- fuel boiler for burning greenhouses [laughs]
PL: One of the things you can do, one of the things you can do on this particular site though, you can click one that you’re interested in, I don’t know, let’s say, you’re interested in that one
P: Yeah
?: And you do that, and you, you
?: You’ve now bought it
PL: That’s it
P: You surf the information
PL: You haven’t bought it [laughs]
P: You haven’t bought it, [laughs] yeah, exactly [laughs]
P: Oh, that’s brilliant
PL: You put it on, you get you’re, you get a clip, clipboard basically
?: Mmm
PL: Where it puts any information about that product, so you can go through, pick out the ones you’re interested in (…)
P: Hmm, I’m impressed, that’s good
LM: It’s like if you have your copy of Loot, you cut them out
?: Yeah
LM: Stick them all on a bit of paper
PL: Yeah, right
P: Brilliant
LM: It’s kind of like that
P: It’s good
PL: And then, we haven’t got this attached but 
?:  Fuzzy Felt for the nineties [laughs]
PL: Yeah, right (3.0)
PL: (…) I’m thinking about (…) [laughs]
P: I bet it hasn’t got any zimmer frames [laughs]
?: That’s next [laughs]
?: They take a lot longer to come through [laughs]
P: Can you imagine, twenty-four of them all 
?:  Good condition, crashed three times or something [laughs]
?: Or only three (…), novelty item
PL: Well, it seems er, trying to click that item has definitely, oh
?: Oh it’s coming
PL: Here we go
?: Oh look, we’ve got something on
P: Aha, we’ve got an image on now (.) it’s a bit expensive, a hundred and fifty pound 
PL:  So that’s gone back to the, to the main thing, I don’t know where 
P:  Very good
PL: That football is, but like (…)
P: Cor, this must be a big one, look six hundred pound [laughs]
?: Cor
?: Twenty by ten
P: I’ll have the 
PL:  That is big isn’t it
P: I’ll have the one that was sixty quid [laughs]
PL: OKAY
P: okay, now think of something else
PL: Any other sites we want to look at?
C: We could try the Argos
?: Can you get Highbury?
?: Mmm [laughs]
?: They kick off at eight o’clock [laughs]
PL: Do they? 
P: Sport
?: Well, I don’t 
?:  Go on then
?: What, what about 
P:  Sport, yeah
?: Um
?: We tried (…) 
P:  What about, erm
?: You get a commentary (…)
P: What about Capital Radio, cause that is
?: Yeah
P: On the Internet and that has
?: Yeah
P: Literally the people every morning
?: Mmm
P: Like on the Internet
LM: We haven’t got a sound recorder have we?
PL: Sorry?
LM: A sound conductor?
?: Those people in America watching Capital Radio
PL: No
?: Yeah?
?: Listening to Capital Radio
?: Yep
PL: There is a sound conductor
?: Is there?
P: Cause Tony Blackburn always goes on (…) cheerful on the Internet sometimes
?: Mmm, mmm
?: And then
?: Sorry
?: Yeah (..)
?: Capital Gold Sport dot com, I think it is
P: Yeah, (…) tonight
?: I think he had www dot Capital Gold Sport dot com
P: Dot
?: Dot U.K., I think it is
?: Yeah
?: So they say 
?: I always forget the dot, dot com
?: I can’t understand old J.P. while he’s, while he’s going in full flow of course
?: (.) A nunnery [laughs]
LM: What did you say it was?
?: Capital Gold
P: Capital Gold
LM: All in one word?
PL: Yeah, I think so
?: Yeah, I think Capital Gold Sport
LM: If I can spell (…) (7.0)
PL: If you 
?:  Capital Gold
PL: If you don’t know
?: Sport
?: Sport
PL: The address, you can, you can actually search for it
?: Why?
PL: (…) Capital Gold
?: Sorry, oh, I think it’s all one 
P:  It’s like when you go to the library and you put er
?: All one word
P: A request on the
?: Dot com
P: Er, you go into the menu and you put a request and it says search the public library
PL: Yeah
P: Right, and you’d be looking for Wilbur Smithers and also 
PL:  Yeah
P: As an example
PL: Right
P: And it will search the 
PL:  That’s it
P: Library for you and say yeah, this, these are the books he’s written
PL: Mmm
P: They’re not available in this library
PL: Mmm
P: But you can get them from say, Chipping Barnet or something
PL: It’s the same system, I mean
P: Brilliant, isn’t it
PL: This is searching the whole 
P: Brilliant
PL: Worldwide Web, as it were
P: You’ve got greenhouses back [laughs]
PL: Back on greenhouses
P: [laughs] We’re back on greenhouses (10.0)
PL: Do you think you could get used to the pace of this?
C: If I had one of these, I don’t think I would do anything else
S: Shame [laughs]
?: I think it’s (…)
?: Well, that’s Capital FM
?: Honestly
C: You can buy a housekeeper [laughs]
P: [laughs] Yeah
C: Get one to come round
P: Someone fond of very old people, dogs and very young children [laughs]
?: (…) Bit like um, whatsit, whatsit, down in er south coast
PL: Ah, it looks like we’ve got something
LM: Hopefully, we’ll be able to link up
P: Capital FM (.) 95.8 yes (.) getting there (.) trouble is everybody that’s
?: Is it (…) down there?
C: I think I’d get bored
PL: Yeah?
C: With this
P: Is this, do you think this is because you work in this sort of, and you’re used to a quick response, because I mean I, obviously
PL: Yeah
P: I been out of work for so long, but to me this is just fascinating (.) whereas 
C:  I suppose so, yeah
P: You, because you work
?: It depends how much time you got really, doesn’t it
?: Yeah
?: I mean, you, you, you work 
?:  (…)
P: You use the computer at work, I mean I, so to me, although it’s
?: This is quite slow
P: It’s slow to you, but to me
C: Mmm
P: I’m still quite happy to sit here and wait
C: The only thing I probably do is I know on the Internet you can buy like tickets and
PL: Right
C: For shows and things
P: Yeah
C: Like that and rather than ring up and wait on the phone
P: You can book cinemas and things, can’t you, yeah
PL: Right
C: You know you’re in a queue
P: Here you are
C: You’re third in the queue
P: What’s coming up now?
?: Sports time? (…)
?: Oh yes
?: Or (…)
?: Show time, isn’t it?
P: Show time fun?
?: cause it’s Sports time, yeah, yeah, that’s the one
LM: (…) Don’t know what’s going to come up here. Plug ins? This is going to be to (9.0)
?: What’s that Capital com thing, just there?
LM: Where? What?
?: You were just doing a, I think on (…) were you?
LM: Mmm (.) mmm
?: Oh, this is probably the joint website I suppose
PL: Right
LM: I don’t know whether we’ll connect (…)
?: (…) There’s a Sports time, icon hasn’t, oh it’s just about coming up isn’t it?
P: Is this all going (…) 
?:  Just about to, isn’t it?
P: Is this all going on slow (…)
PL: Yeah [laughs]
P: Oh my god [laughs] (3.0)
?: I suppose everyone’s got used to the er teletext, on like TV (…)
C: Yeah
?: And that just like changes 
?:  Yeah, but you always miss the page you want to look at [laughs]
P: You do
?: (…)
PL: Oh yeah, that’s (…) that has it’s own
?: (…) about four out of fifty-eight
C: I think it’s just getting used to it
S: Yeah, but we don’t like (…) extra (…)
?: You don’t like waiting, do you
?: That’s right
?: That’s true, it’s not actually getting used to it, it’s the charge time
C: When I used to go to the cinema, you couldn’t order it on credit cards and phone things up, you used to go and you used to queue
PL: Yeah, right
C: So, it’s just 
PL:  But now it’s 
C: But now you just phone up, so I suppose it’s just getting used to it, if everybody had these in their homes, you would (.) you would use it
PL: So you, do you think it will just spread as people get
C: Yeah
PL: More computers (…)
C: Yeah, yeah
PL: I mean do you, if you had a computer at home, do you think you’d be 
C: Yeah
PL: Thinking about it
C: Yeah, I’d think about it. It’d depend, it would just depend how much it, sort of cost and how much it added and how much you were actually sort of saving. If you were just (.) it’s, you know you could sit there all evening, evening just looking at different sites
P: Yeah, Sports time, it’s just coming up isn’t it?
PL: What about specific sort of er uses of it like you, someone mentioned earlier the Tesco, you were mentioning the Tesco?
?: Mmm, yeah
PL: Do you see anything um, any advantage in that kind of service? ?: I suppose if you don’t want to
?: If you hate supermarket shopping, yeah
?: Or if you haven’t got the time to
P: It’s a question of time, yeah
?: And it’s delivered to you, um, it could be, as I say, it could be good for an older person (…) if they can use the Internet
P:My Dad’s eighty-four, but I don’t know if he could use this ?: Mmm
P: I’m not saying he couldn’t, but my Dad’s eighty-four and, although I live with him, when I’m on holiday, I suppose if he could arrange to have things delivered that he wouldn’t normally be able to go out and get. But I don’t if an older person 
PL: Right
?: Mmm
P: Would 
?: I’d agree
?: I suppose you could get someone to do it for you and put, give yourself a place to put (…)
P: I mean would there be anyway of sort of programming in a simple, instead of having to fiddle with the mouse and everything (…), would there be a simple way that you could just say, just put in dnt, dnt, dnt, and you’re automatically go to Tesco’s or (.) I don’t know 
C: Then surely you’ve got to go round and click on what you actually want 
P: Exactly, haven’t you, exactly
C: You must have to click on
P: Yeah
C: Like, if you, whatever you must have a list
P: Dnt, dnt, dnt
C: Of what’s in Tesco’s
P: Exactly
C: And you click on it and have a list
P: That’s what I was wondering, unless there’s a catalogue or something or something that comes up I don’t know, I mean as you say, are you just going round anyone sort of st, st, st
?: Yeah
PL: Right, how would you imagine that working?
P: I don’t know because I think, when my sister lives in Reading, they’ve got one of these scan things and as she puts it in her trolley, she scans it herself 
PL: Right
?: I’ve seen that somewhere
PL: Right
P: Yeah, it’s in Reading Savacentre I think it is 
PL: Yeah
?: (…)
P: She goes into the shop, and then she just, she just decides what she wants to put in her trolley, she decides she’s changed her mind and puts it back, she scans it back off (…) and at the end she just has to put the thing on the machine and it 
?: (…) got in there
P: It accepts that’s what she’s got in her trolley, I mean you can’t smuggle things in, cause it doesn’t work like that at all, you know (.) chance is you’re walking around with children, they do tend to eat their crisps and throw wrapper in the trolley, and it would tell you at the end that there is something there that hasn’t been scanned, it’s not accusing you of stealing but something in there. But she said that it was quite fun, but I think they only used it as a test thing, it’s quite good fun (.) but it’s a little bit intimidating
?: Mmm
S: Oh, look
?: Error
S: Another error
PL: Yeah
P: It’s closed out of that one, oh dear (5.0)
PL: Alright, well maybe we can just sort of chat about it a bit more now (4.0). So, okay, you’ve given me some general impressions and thoughts about it and that sort of thing and using it, but er who do you think these sorts of services would appeal to?
C: Career people that haven’t got the time
PL: Right
C: Like I say, if you’ve got a man, a man and wife or girlfriend, boyfriend living and they’re doing, they’ve both got careers and I would have thought it would be something, something that they would do
PL: Right (.) Do you think that’s right?
?: Mmm (…)
?: Agoraphobics [laughs]
?: I think people who had a job getting out, perhaps, if they were handicapped in some way or
PL: Right
?: Um (.) I don’t know (3.0)
PL: What about, um, do you see any er, issues er or problems about this kind of service?
?: It’s not being monitored really is it? 
PL: No
?: If you’ve got your own (.) PC at home
PL: Yeah
?: You can unload you know, download any old (.) stuff on it, apparently
C: That’s with the kids and the, the porn that’s on it isn’t it? They have, isn’t there a problem with 
?:  Yeah, I suppose, I suppose they would have none
C: Anyone can tap into it
?: I don’t know whether you could have, whether you could actually build in blocks to websites, like you can, you know, put a bar on your telephone
C: Mmm
?: For certain numbers
C: You do it with Sky don’t you, you have to put in like a, they’re doing it for the movies and boxing, like you have to do a PIN number, so you could do something like that
PL: Right
C: To avoid people going into stuff that they shouldn’t be going into
PL: Were you thinking mainly of children?
P: No, not necessarily children, I understand what you’re saying actually
C: Not really necessarily
P: No
C: Imagine if, I mean I know what I was like, you know, I’m younger and you’re up in your room, say you’ve got the Internet upstairs, and, like you say, if it’s plugged into you’re phone and your kids like tapping away
P: Mmm
C: Every night on this thing (.) because they can use it probably, like you say, better than adults can, and if they’re just sitting there all night and you think they’re watching the telly or they’ve got friends up there and they’re all sitting round this, I think you should sort of have some, not just a protection thing but protection to actually get in it and, so that 
P:  Now it’s gone back to starlight thing, has it actually cut off now or is it still running
?: (…) is it?
P: I don’t know, I mean 
PL:  Aha, it’s still running, we’d better switch it off otherwise (…)
P: That’s what I’m saying, cause we sat and I watched that for about ten minutes before we did anything on it, and I’m sitting there thinking I could easily watch this, [laughs] it’s like watching the sky at night isn’t it? [laughs]
P: If it’s still connected and everything, I mean, god, I don’t know (.)
PL: No it’s not that, I’ve just switched the modem off, so it’s not very
?: It could be connected, that’s what you’re saying
P: Exactly
C: So if your modem’s off, the modem’s the one that’s connected into the telephone
P: And you go and put yourself to bed, and it’s still twilight room isn’t it?
PL: Friend of mine did that and they ended up with a fifty quid bill for that occasion
P: Hsssssss
PL: Right, because the modem’s don’t time themselves out
P: And they don’t sort of bleep to warn you
?: Could you add friends and family to your um [laughs]
?: Yeah [laughs]
?: To my modem, yeah [laughs]
PL: I think you’d have to. What about your rights as a consumer? Yeah, if you were using 
?:  Well you’re not actually
PL: Do you think they’d be affected?
?: Well, you’re not actually touching the items, you’re not looking at the items, you’re just 
?: No, you’re not
PL: Right
?: When you order them, they’re going to be delivered, I don’t know
P: And it’s shouldn’t affect your statutory rights, should it?
PL: That’s true (…)
C: Well, the catalogue, if you order anything from a catalogue, you can send it back and get a full refund
P: Yeah, and it’s always got a
C: Even if you don’t like it
P: That’s right
C: I’ve never had a problem with
P: No, I’ve never
C: Sending things back
PL: Well, catalogue companies are quite interested in, using the web
?: Mmm, mmm
P: My cousin’s actually got one of these, he, he lives in Nottingham now, but he used to live actually just up the road from here in Winchmore Hill with his Mum, she died a couple of years ago, but he’s got one of these, he’s a graphic designer and he finds his very useful and he wants to sort of, along with his fax machine, I don’t know if you can link the two up to the (…) really, I don’t know what it is, but he finds this useful, if he wants to sort of find out something that he needs for now and then to fax a customer up in London, because he originally, as I said, lived here and he used to work from Highbury and Islington. When you’re up in Nottingham it’s, you know, you’re on the end of the phone. He said he really enjoys using his
PL: Right
P: Really enjoys it, he works from home with his girlfriend, they’ve got their business there, so they live there, work there, but he said this is like his link to the outside world, without having to get in the car and physically go and have a look at something. And he’s just come back, he did um, a lot of work in Spain for Marlborough and another, on the Spanish Grand Prix or something
PL: Right
P: And he had to go back and check that what he’d done was alright. And I suppose this is the sort of thing, yeah, I mean (.) as far as I’m concerned if I had that at home my children would play with it and if it was plugged in I’d end up with a two thousand pound phone bill
S: I think there should be a time limit as well within, you know, for your eyesight if nothing else, I mean 
P:  Yeah, but it’ll suddenly go dnt, dnt
S: I don’t know about research into that
P: Yeah, absolutely
S: But I know within school, we’re only allowed to give the children ten minutes
P: Ten
S: Each
P: Like, yeah
S: At, er, er, you know at er a certain time
PL: You wouldn’t get very far in ten minutes
S: No (…) 
P:  No, the speed that was going, no
PL: Well, what about different kinds of shopping that we do. We talked a bit about supermarket shopping, I mean, we can see er you could order all your month’s sort of basic shopping P: Well
PL: What about other, what about like clothes shopping?
P: Well, for example, I mean, for a long while we’ve had catalogues
PL: Right
P: Now, we’ve got, the Next Directory is coming out on television tonight and I notice you have to pay three pound for it. Now when I got it a couple years ago and I only got it for a treat, you didn’t have to pay for it, but now it’s three pound, I quite understand, it’s a hardback book, you get (…) but with catalogues I’ve never had any problems with sending things back
?: It shouldn’t, shouldn’t really (…)
P: It shouldn’t really, should it
?: Because you do it by mail, you can do it by
?: Yeah
?: Well, I suppose electronic mail
?: Yeah
?: Or the, you know telephone, you phone them up, say I want this, this and this, if it’s wrong you send it back
?: Yeah
?: Or you know, they send you the bill and you can pay, you know, one pound a week for three or four 
P:  So many weeks, that’s exactly
?: Whatever
?: It should be the same really shouldn’t it?
PL: What about paying um over the, over the Internet?
C: I wouldn’t like to really give my credit card 
P:  No, I agree with you
C: cause you get, you know you get so much junk mail and you get people phoning and they say where on earth (…) the reason I think they got it is when you start booking tickets and you give your address and you house number and all they do is type up the postcode and they know your name 
P:  And they know exactly who you are
C: They know your occupation, they know everything 
P: Yeah, they do
C: I wouldn’t be too keen on
?: If you was travelling in there with your credit card, could someone log into it?
P: This is what I was wondering
?: Someone outside, sort of logging
C: Well, they do it for mobile phones so I suppose it’s there
?: Yeah, I mean you could be given the information if you’re sort of sitting there and you know
?: Yeah
?: It really does depend on the security, I suppose
C: At least with the telephone you know it’s only like a one, (…) one way conversation, so maybe if you give your (…) [laughs]
P: I mean, I’ll give you an example, just before Christmas, unfortunately we had to have our dog put to sleep, and she wasn’t actually ill, she became ill during the day. We phoned the vet, Cannon Hill, um ‘Can I have your name?’ Yes, so and so, ‘Right a call out charge of fifty five pound will be required, can I have your credit card number?’ So, my husband gave his credit card number and before he’d got to ‘And can you confirm your address?’ before he’d got to the end of the street, ‘Can you confirm your postcode? Oh yes, okay, someone will be with you in twenty minutes.’ They’d already taken the fifty-five pound call out off of his credit card. When they came and put my dog asleep, they just had another slip ready more or less assuming, and he just signed it and two days later he had a receipt from the Nationwide Building Society to say you’re account’s been debited, debited with another seventy pound, fifty. I mean, this is spooky, cause you know, one minute you phone up ‘Can you confirm your name and postcode?’ and they’ve already boomp, boomp, boomp and you think, god, how did they know, I mean, this is a vet, we’re not talking about British Telecom here, we’re not talking about big company like Littlewoods or anything major, we’re talking about a private vetinerary practice in Cannon Hill. So I don’t know about all this giving your credit card number
PL: Right
P: I think, no. With catalogues you don’t have to pay. They send you the goods
?: Yeah
P: If you don’t like them, you send them back
?: (…)
P: You get a statement, you can pay over the counter
S: Yeah
PL: Right
C: That’s what, that’s what they normally do, so you got the option. They’ll send you the stuff and then they’ll send you 
P: That’s right
C: A statement, and then you, you
P: Select what you want, pay by cheque
C: Credit
P: Pay the whole lot, take it as you said pound a week, for the thirty-eight weeks or whatever
PL: Right
C: And then
PL: So there’s a
C: You (…) a ticket
PL: There’s a worry about this
P: Well, as you just said, was it a PIN number that you think you, yeah I agree, but then as I said, my mother-in-law, she watches this QVC, she picks up her phone, taps the number and taps her PIN number onto her phone and just puts the (…) number in and just puts the phone down, and the blinking thing arrives and (.) that’s it
PL: Has she, has she, has she had any problem about 
P: She’s had a lot of trouble returning things that haven’t come up as they look on the picture
PL: Right
P: And she’s returned them, got a receipt, you know, it’s taken perhaps weeks to go back into her account
PL: Right, right
?: Mmm (…)
PL: cause for certain products, it, maybe it’s 
P:  And you’re paying interest on that, aren’t you? So I don’t know (2.0)
PL: Okay (2.0) Well, what about, um in relation to ordinary shopping, what do you think’s missed out, I mean, if people were to use this (.) Is there, are there things that (…) you’d miss?
?: Exercise (…) [laughs]
?: What, or they’d miss?
PL: Or they would miss
?: (…) Well, but if it’s a you know, could be your supermarket shopping, are they going to be plugging certain brands?
P: Mmm
?: Whereas, you know, if you’ve got the time to go round, you know get the saver’s one, the middle of the range one and then the top of the range one
P: Or buy two get one free
?: Yeah
P: Yeah
?: Yeah, exactly, yeah
C: cause if they’ve got Kellogg’s putting some money towards them being on the Internet
P: Exactly
?: That’s right (…)
?: Pay an extra two quid for some Fruit & Fibre, you know
P: Yeah
?: Sod the raisins, sod the nuts, I want the [laughs]
P: That’s right
PL: Right, right
P: And what about these? 
?:  It really does depend how you shop
P: That’s right
?: Sort of, you know, money no object, but it, it’s got to be
C: You need the variety
?: The same as actually being in the store, you’ve got to be able to see (.)
P: The range
?: Yeah, the whole range
C: Do you think you could put everything on the Internet though, that’s in a supermarket?
?: No
C: Because I mean, there’s an awful lot, you’d be there doing your shopping list for hours
?: Well, then you, you, you yeah, I mean you’ve got to have various places that you go to
P: But presumably
?: With various types of products, let’s say non-food, food, you know, two types, that would be fine
?: It would depend on what the supermarket was charging for delivery, probably
P: I mean OK
?: Yeah
P: With Argos you can get a catalogue and basically Argos sticks to that catalogue, they do have a few obvious (…) and a few sales, right but Toys R’Us is an example, supposing my son decided he wants a bike and he says ‘Oh Mum, Sean got one that was in Toys R’Us’, okay, do you need the model number, do they have a catalogue, how are you going to know what you’re ordering? Or are they just going to go, ‘Right you can have this, this or that
?: (…) I suppose if there’s no picture
P: Exactly, if there’s no picture
?: You’ve got to have pictures, yeah
P: You’ve got no more
?: It’s got to be the same as
P: Exactly, exactly
?: Just the same as if you were housebound or you hadn’t got time
P: That’s right
?: Or you’re too busy
P: Yeah, that’s right
C: Yeah, like you could say for example
?: You got to look round the shop, it’s virtual, it’s supposed to be virtual shopping
P: I mean with Argos, it does say on the book, colours may vary, that could even be on something like a bike, so although the bike might be displayed in luminous yellow
PL: Right
P: It might say ‘Colours may vary’ or ‘Superstore only’, so you know that you can’t just go to the usual little one up in Finchley and get this bike. But when a kid says ‘Oh, I want this’ or you know that you need that or a toaster or a kettle or (.) there’s millions, microwave. Argos have got a catalogue, you’ve got say five pages all on microwaves, you know what model you want, I mean how is it going to work? Are you going to have to sit here for ten minutes looking at them, flicking through pages or (.)
C: It’s probably
C: It’s like logging a catalogue onto a screen really isn’t it, rather than going out and buying it
P: Mmm
C: You order it, sort of over, over the Internet. But if you had like a copy of the catalogue that would probably work anyway
P: Yeah
C: Like you click pages, don’t you on a spreadsheet
P: Yeah
C: You just click onto, you say next and it
PL: Right
P: Yeah
C: The next page comes up
PL: Right, right
C: So I suppose if you’ve got it
P: Almost like a microfiche thing, where it just
C: Like you could do that thing in Loot
PL: Yeah
C: You could put up cookers or you could put up
PL: Yeah
C: Something, and then it would list those few pages
PL: Right
C: That would be probably the easiest way
P: Yeah
C: Of doing it, they
PL: I suppose the advantage is that you could go to any catalogue on this, not just one (…)
P: Absolutely
?: Mmm
PL: So you could (…)
?: Mmm, yeah
PL: What about banking on the, on the net? (.) Keeping your accounts
S: There’s no security again
P: I wouldn’t
PL: Yeah? (.)
?: (…) security in PC banking anyway, there’s got to be otherwise it’s not going to work
?: There’s a lot of telephone banking isn’t there?
?: Yeah
?: Yeah
C: It’s probably no different really, because if they
?: Mmm
C: All your details are on a computer at the bank anyway, so I wouldn’t have thought it would be (.) that much different. Rather than just going in in person, all your details are still in the computer anyway so people could hack (.)
PL: Right
C: Sort of hack back, so 
?:  You’ve got to
C: And it’s not very often
?: You’ve got to be able to have the code to get into your own account (…)
?: Mmm
C: How does personal banking work though? Say for example, the bank needs a copy, if you’re paying money in
PL: Right
C: Then you say to the Internet, I’d like to pay such and such in, do you, is, then do you just pop it in the post and it goes through and it’s already, is that the way it works? But what if you wanted to 
PL:  You have to still give it to them, yeah [laughs]
C: That’s what I mean [laughs] I try things out [laughs] (…) settle for the logic behind why
PL: Right
C: Would you do banking on the Internet
PL: No, absolutely
C: If you’re going to pay money in or get money out. It’s not, you don’t have to queue anyway now to, to do either of those things
PL: Right, right
C: So I just wondered why they, what sort of benefits you’ve got from banking on, on a screen like that
PL: Well I suppose you can always have access to the information in your account, for example
?: Mmm, yeah
?: (…) things at three o’clock in the morning, you could wake up, a nightmare and you [laughs] get into your bank
?: (…) look in my account
C: cause you’ve got direct debits and standing orders and everything that’s already done for you, so I’d be a bit
?: I think
C: As to why I’d need to do it
?: You can, you can tap it in already up and pay your bill can’t you
?: Mmm
?: Pay different bills
?: Mmm
?: At three or four in the morning if you want to
C: You’ve got nothing better to do [laughs] (…)
?: Load your car up
PL: So, where do you see this going, this technology? I mean obviously it’s new technology (…)
?: It’ll probably take over
?: Mmm
PL: Really?
?: I mean…
?: Mmm
P: Oh, I think it will yeah
?: Whatever’s going to close down, everyone’s going to be doing it from home
?: Yeah, I agree
PL: You, you think it’s going to spread that er wide?
?: I mean it’s going to 
?:  No
?: You’ve got to have a computer at home
P: Yeah
?: You’ve got to have a modem or something
?: Mmm
?: And you’ve got to be semi-literate with, with computers
P: Yeah
?: So that’s three things you’ve got to have, so not every home’s going to have one, so turn of the century I’d say
?: So it’s not going to be a lot of people that
C: I think it’d be very popular
?: Going round, going round the shops
C: Mmm
?: I mean, you know it is still an experience to go into a shop and actually see what you’re
?: Mmm
?: You’re going to get um
P: Yeah
?: In your life, rather than sort of (…)
?: I mean, some, some, some women really, really love supermarket shopping
P: I like shopping
?: You know some women just (…)
P: Yeah, I do
?: If I go to the supermarket, I just grab what I want and get out, you know, but some people like to tour around all the aisles
P: No I do, I mean I do, I like shop, ordinary shopping. But if I was ordering something like as I just said a bike or a microwave, I’d be quite happy to just go dnk, dnk, dnk, I’ll have that, that’s fine, I’ve looked at it in the book, that’s what I want
PL: So it would be the convenience of it if it, if it was something 
P: Certain things, you know um
?: If it was TV, if it was TV or hi-fi, you may enjoy going to those shops, electrical shops
P: cause you like such things, you look at them and you actually like
?: Yeah
P: To sort of touch them, you see
?: Whereas a, a lady might want to go into a clothes shop
P: Yeah
?: And spend, you know, a whole day in there
C: I think, you know at the moment it’s very business orientated cause
PL: Right
P: Yeah
C: Most business people will already have a computer, whether it be a laptop
P: Yeah
?: Mmm
C: And then 
P:  Well as you just said most times
C: (…) already paid out for it
P: Most times
C: And then they just connect the modem
?: I would, I would say so myself
C: Yeah, my friends have got it, but they’ve only got it because they have a computer business
PL: Right
c: And if they’re working from home or whether it’s the, their businesses, so they’ve only paid for connection to the modem really, but they haven’t actually
PL: Right
C: I think it’s quite expensive for like a family to go out, buy, buy a computer, buy a modem and then pay
?: Mmm
C: Every time you use it 
PL: Mmm, mmm
C: But it’s very good when you, when you’re looking for um to see what’s on, rather than actual physical shopping, I’d be more inclined to see what’s on at theatre, pop concerts
PL: Right
C: Things like that
PL: Right
C: Maybe music, rather than actual shopping for you know TV’s and clothes and things like that, you’d be shopping for things that you don’t need to see cause you can see before you get them
PL: Mmm, okay. And you’ve seen the sort of um er, sites that they have show, tried to show you [laughs] some of them tonight. I mean, how would you, how would you see those um developing, what would you like to see them?
LM: Yeah, I mean, how, what sort of things do you think they should, how could they be more appealing?
?: Mmm
LM: What might develop?
?: Probably less sell, sell, sell
LM: Mmm
?: Because I think that’s probably, probably what they’re there for, I mean I think you mentioned earlier, you know, there was some (…) it could be the website one week could be sponsored by a particular product
?: Mmm
?: You’d be plugging a particular product, you know, you, you won’t have that flexibility to, as if you were in the shop and have your own choice
LM: Right
?: Can’t say ‘Have a look at this’, and that’s you know
?: Do they, do they actually illustrate the item if you want one, rather than just seeing, like what we saw, like a greenhouse, I mean if you go to one of the shops, do they actually show you, show you the article?
PL: Yes, some of them
?: If you went to a greenhouse shop, they should really show you pictures I think, rather than
?: Well in some ways I (…) forget about, forget about greenhouses, I mean if it was, I don’t know clothes shops, hi-fi shops, whatever, they actually show you the product on them, how it looked as well as right up like, they would
?: It does, it does depend I think on (…) some are better at doing that than others
?: Mmm, mmm
?: So I mean
?: What, what do they do in America, I mean do they give you an incentive by giving a reduction on the price or something like that, or you know, giving you points, to justify using them again (…) 
P:  Can I ask what they’re going to do, I think they’re going to do it exactly like QVC. You’re going to have a channel and a telly, and you can watch it all day, well, more than one, loads of channels, you can flick from channel to channel and it’s going to say ‘Do you want to buy some, it’s only so and so, just press this on your Internet and you can order it now’ (.) So if you sit there like, (…) there it is, she hasn’t even got to use her phone now, she just goes dnt, dnt and it’s ordered. That’s how I think it’s going to end up working
PL: Right
P: Because until you’ve seen anything demonstrated, I’m sorry, but I wouldn’t order
anything just from pictures, unless it was in a catalogue with full description and everything and I wouldn’t be prepared to sit there and go through the equivalent of fifteen pages of an Argos book, to look for a, anything (.) But the way that works is they’re saying this is and this does and this is and you know, um, massaging hair brushes was the last thing she bought, I mean you really want two massaging hair brushes, but she convinced herself she definitely did and it was buy one get one free so she ordered two. And all the men in the family are bald [laughs] but she’ll order one for Christmas
?: What massage (..)
P: I’m convinced that’s how it’s going to work (…)
P: You’re not going to sit here like this looking at that to, to come up and show you as you just said, do you like to go up to Comet and look at the microwaves and the washing machines and see how the buttons and things
PL: That’s right
P: And then I’ll go ‘Oh I’ll have one, that’ll do’. But if somebody was on there convincing you by demonstrating that you really want it
C: You might do though, cause say for example if you didn’t have the time to go out and look or you just couldn’t be bothered to look for a washing machine, if you know, you know what you want and say you’ve got a description and it’s a white washing machine, to me it’d be like ‘Yeah, alright I’ll have that one’, it wouldn’t, I wouldn’t 
P: No, I wouldn’t do that
C: Because it would still list, you can’t go to J Lewis and say ‘Right, test that out for me, I’ll have a cycle please or anything like that
P: No, no you can’t
C: I can understand TV’s cause of the sound and hi-fi’s and things like that, but, an ironing board, any, anything like that, it really wouldn’t bother me about clicking a button (…) I’ve got to be, I’ve got to be honest it wouldn’t really phase me at all
PL: What, you, right, you’ve mentioned J Lewis before though, I mean say J Lewis had a website and er they could send you a CD, you just put it in your computer and it made the links for you
P: Oh yeah
PL: You know all this business that we were doing
P: That’s it
PL: And then you’d have a direct link to it
C: That’s a very good idea
P: That’s it, so that’s the equivalent of the catalogue isn’t it?
C: Plus it’s got very good reputation
P: Yeah
C: So, say for example if you’ve got, if you had like a CD that you put in and it’s got J Lewis products and you click on electrical or you click on beauty or something like that, you know that you are, because it’s J Lewis, I’m not saying they’re faultless
P: You trust them
C: You do, it’s like
P: You trust them
C: with Marks and Spencers’, it’s like oh that’s sounds, you know, that’s interesting
PL: Right, right
C: So that saves going and queuing up, cause you know
PL: Right
C: Really what you’ve got, what you’re going to get, but if it was just sort of like an ordinary 
PL: Well, okay, I mean one of the things that might develop here with er Internet shopping is that lots of new companies will emerge, so for example there are some quite successful ones in the States, there’s one that sells, Amazon, dot, com and it’s a bookshop. It never was a real bookshop, it’s only ever existed as a web shop (.) but would you be less inclined, is that what you’re saying to use
?: It depends on what the product is, I think
?: Depends what it’s got to offer
C: If it was a book, I wouldn’t say it would be that different from going to Dillons or getting it off of a, it just depends how much money you’re spending I think. Plus the fact by word of mouth if it’s good in America, somebody must have started it, it, it’s word of mouth, if you’ve got somebody saying, oh this is really good, I ordered this from god knows who, you’ve never heard of them, you, you get to know (.)
PL: Another development that’s sort of beginning to happen is what are called intelligent agents, where you can say to them, ‘Look, I’d like to buy, say this CD’ and they’ll find it wherever it’s cheapest in the world, basically, and then you can order it by post. Would that appeal as a?
?: Depends how much you pay the agent?
LM: Mmm, yeah, it’s like a little programme on the computer and I think you probably, at some point they’ll try and charge you to suscribe maybe, but at the moment there are some there like ‘Try us out’
?: Mmm
?: Mmm
LM: They want us to, you know, enter what CD you want
?: Well, especially if you’re looking for something really er bizarre, it could work
LM: Mmm
PL: Right, right
?: I mean otherwise you could probably just sort of surf, surf, whatever your Tower Records and your HMV, I don’t know, if they’ve got
LM: It’d be a good idea as well, you could sort of like, everything comes out like electrical in Japan and things like that it’s going to be a lot cheaper to buy
PL: Right
?: Something like that, than when it’s eventually out over here, that would appeal to a lot of people
PL: okay (3.0) okay, well that’s great, has, has anyone got any final thoughts or ideas
?: Well, it’s quite useful as well, like get the information about something
PL: Right
?: So, you’ve got a TV, a line, well you can actually go into that and ask er information about (…) give you screes of paper about where to buy (…) and how it functions, so
PL: Right
?: So it is quite useful (…)
PL: Yes, that’s right, because you can download information about particular products, find out quite a lot about it, print that out (3.0)
?: Would you be, are you able to do that with certain companies, say you know like if you were going for an interview?
PL: Yes
?: Yeah
?: (…)
?: Yeah, we’re actually setting up our own Internet now and it’ll be linked and you’ll go into it and it’ll actually tell you all the, all the information about it
P: Really
?: And it will(…) personnel people (…)
?: Because I mean, you know, the company would obviously while, you know, they’ve obviously taken the time to do that
?: Yeah, very much so
?: But then I think as it gets you know more and more companies do it, I don’t think it will be seen as you know, you won’t be seen as good as doing it, you know, whereas at the moment it’s a big thing isn’t it, finding out about the company you’re going for
PL: Yeah
?: So you can send your CV down
?: Yeah, straight down to it
?: Right (…) personnel (…) you got your job to do, things like that
?:Mmm
PL: Yes, I mean that’s interesting about the availability of information, it works in shopping too I think, so for example Which have er, are on-line, so you can find out about products and services and join their campaigns and so on
P: Things like you just mentioned, gives it a completely different aspect doesn’t it, I mean if you can sort of link up, I mean, there’s nothing more diminishing to a person who is out of work than trudging round the employment agencies and going through the papers week after week and giving the CV and sending it off and finding that, you might not even get a reply, but at least if you can do that like that, so you know how to produce it once nicely and bosh, give it to them, give it to everybody, anybody that’s got the vacancy, that’s brilliant
?: Which is what the people do, they type it all out
P: Brilliant
?: And send it
P: Once nicely and that’s fantastic
PL: Right(6.0) Great, well thanks a lot [laughs]
?: thank you
PL: That was very interesting
P: I’m enjoying watching this now [laughs]
PL: I know, it’s good that isn’t it
?: Which one?
P: The twilight zone [laughs] 
?: Play some games on that
P: Well, it’s good, interesting
PL: Good (.) It is good that isn’t it
LM: You can get there faster
PL: Yes (…) yeah
?: Warp speed, go up a bit I think (.)
LM: Thanks very much


 



 

Focus group 2, 4.2.98
ABC1 women


Participants:		Y
			M
			C
			S
			G
			L

Comments:	- Good group, keen to talk. Group bonded quite well, and no one person appeared to dominate conversation.
	- All were familiar with computer technology, and almost all had used the Internet at some point. Some used computers at work, some at home, and a few both. One member (L) had looked at shopping sites previously.
	- No serious problems with laptop - a bit slow but much better than Group 1.
	- Generally more positive about e-commerce than previous group. Most keen on online superstores and grocery shopping. Also bargain hunting. Less keen on clothes shopping.

2 ABCI Women 4/2/98

PL: It is now [laughter]
?: Rewind
PL: (…) No we’ve got this one working
LM: Is this one working?
?: (…) back-up [laughter]
PL: That’s right
LM: We obviously need it
PL: That’s right, we need it (15.0) It’s always working when it dials properly, the server (4.0)
LM: Is this CompuServe?
PL: No, there’s no dial tone (2.0)
?: There’s a lady on the phone out there, does that matter?
PL: Ah [laughter] Yeah, it might do [laughter]
?: (…) S
?: (…) using the same line
PL: We’ve only got one line
?: Oh, right, do you want to check Liz?
[Liz goes to check] [coughing] [laughter]
?: Issue one, about the Internet
PL: So did you say you’d got a portable at home?
?: Mmm
PL: Sort of takes time to make the connection
?: Yes
PL: Here we are, should be alright now (20.0)
LM: Right so this is UCL server then is it Pete?
PL: Yeah well it’s in Netscape now
LM: Okay, right well we’ll go to bookmark section we can see some of the ones I bookmarked earlier and then who ever wants to can choose between some of these and have a play so any volunteers for Barclay square which is a big mall Tesco, Sainsburys’
?: Barclay Square, there’ll be a lot of shops [laughter]
?: More clothes
?: Barclay Square
LM: Yeah, okay, do you want to have ago
?: Alright (2.0) there?
LM: Yeah it’s the, left hand one is it?
PL: Yeah (10.0)
LM: And let me know what you think of it as it goes along and if you’ve had a look at other Internet sites feel free to make comparisons
?: (…)
(10)
?: Shall I start? (.) [laughter]
?: Hire shops, Interflora, Pooh corner, (…) Thomas Cook, Toys r Us
?: Pooh Corner
?: Pooh Corner [laughter]
?: Does it matter where you click now?
LM: Where the hand shows should be okay
(15)
?: Contact Pooh [laughter]
PL: Well it’s this, this  
?:   What are these down the bottom?
?: Catalogue, feedback, tour.  Where shall we go? Catalogue?
?: Yeah
(5)
?: It’s probably loading five hundred pages [laughter]
?: Pick the biggest one there
PL: I’ve not seen this on
LM: No, me neither [Laughter] I’m intrigued
?: Can’t read it, but (…)
?: It’s quite hard to read
?: (…) glasses in the car (…)
LM: Yeah it is quite isn’t it?
?: All price ranges? 
?: No what have we got?
?: It’s not very clear
?: Under one pound, five to ten, thirty to fifty
?: Yeah
?: That’s a bit bold wow
?: It’s a lot of money isn’t it
?: Ready for bed 
?: That’s that
?: I don’t like (…)
?: (…) play time, stationery?
?: Yeah
?: (…) Christmas?
?: No
?: Classic? [laughter]
?: Collectables and precious things
?: (…) not a lot [Laughter]
LM: Well you never know
?: (…) (4.0)
LM: Have people come across this kind of security thing before?
?: No
?: Yeah
?: So this means somebody else can (…)
?: Oh so other people can look
?: It’s not something on a social level, it’s more
?: Yeah (…) 
?: Is that the one that says other people can  
?:   can see it yeah
?: That what you, just so that you end up with (…) of emails from different shops and things
LM: Oh right. (3.0)
?: Oh
LM: Sort of just says it’s not secure
?: If you’re submitting passwords credit card numbers or any information 
?: I heard that you can get um security for your credit cards on (…)
?: Mmm
?: Mmm
?: ‘Cause that’s it cause Nationwide um you can do on-line banking now as well and you have to put in a password  
?:   Oh that’s good
?: And everything to get in to your statements and everything
?: Buy now, thirty one seventy five
LM: Oh, what’s this?
?: Shall I buy it?
?: Yeah [laughter]
?: So how would you go about if you chose to get that now
?: Buy now
?: Let’s find out
LM: Okay, so let’s  
PL:  Let’s see yeah 
?: Get your credit card out [Laughs]
?: Yeah right honey covered (…) I don’t think so
?: Committed yourself now
?: Yes, thank you
?: (…) I’d leave [laughter]
?: I’m glad my daughter’s not here, [laughter]  mum, mum can I have that? (4.0)
?: I’d have thought it would have showed up (…) bigger
?: Yeah
PL: Mmm
?: Yes, sometimes you can click on them though, and they’ll, they’ll (…)
?: If it’s trying to sell you something , it makes sense to show you it, doesn’t it?
LM: Mmm
?: With me being short sighted [Laughs]
(10)
?: Barclay card seems to be kicking in now
PL: Yeah, get’s serious
?: What have you got as your proof of purchase then 
?: Oh look
?: Do you know?
LM: Proof of purchase, well I mean I think they can phone you sometimes to confirm or they might e-mail you back if you’ve got an e-mail address or
PL: You mean your rights  
?:  Oh yes e-mail
PL: I suppose you can use what you were saying, you can use credit cards you could do it that way (.)
LM: Right okay so assuming nobody actually wants to buy that particular item [Laughter] of Pooh memorabilia, what do we think of what we’ve seen on that site and the order form and process of looking through
?: Do you want a presentation from that sort of order system, is that what you’re after or? 
LM: Well, any, any comments  
?:   I think it’s a bit slow
LM: You have really, bit slow
?: And I thought the picture was
?: They could have made the pictures bigger
?: (…)
?: They didn’t do much to sell the product
LM: Mmm
?: If somebody actually told you postage and packaging as well
?: Delivery charge
?: Oh God I’ve pressed a button
LM: It’s quite okay 
?: I think it’s the way things are going though   
?:  Yeah
?: I think everybody’s going to be eventually, you know like our children I can imagine our children at home, not stepping outside the door to buy anything eventually
LM: Uh huh. So is this good or bad or (…)
?: Oh it’s not bad for big things though isn’t it like things you don’t (…)
PL: What for some  
?:   You would use it I mean you would use it but yes
?: But it makes it anti-social
?: Unsociable
?: Yeah I mean kids didn’t have to go out they’d never 
?: If children never go out they’d never play games with other people, like mine go on the Nickelodeon site and they play games with six other children on line the same as them, and they’re playing questions and answers and that’s what they say now, that children more and more playing on the computer and don’t have real friends that they’re going out with, it makes them very unsociable.
LM: Does that sort of bother you?
?: Yeah it does in a way yeah, because I sort of tend to stop them staying on there for too long you know, you got to set time and that’s it
?: But in one way they’re learning communication because I mean mine they go on the computer, the Nintendo sixty four which is just a machine and them and they’re still in the bedroom [Laughs]
?: Yeah but it’s not with other people is it?
?: No [Laughs]
? It’s a machine isn’t it?
?: That’s what I mean it’s, in one way its helping them 
?:   It has its benefits and it’s
?: Yeah it’s better than if they’re going go and be isolated anyway 
?: So what we looking at now?
?: (…) [laughter]
LM: Just exploring Pooh Corner
PL: Shall we try a different site?
?: Yes
LM: Yeah let’s have a look back at the bookmark and see if anybody wants to try something else. (.) Right, inter stands for Interflora here, um, Thomas Cook
?: What about Marks and Sparks
?: Marks and Spencer
?: Yeah
LM:[Laughter] Overwhelming vote for Marks and Spencers’ I think
(5)
?: Oh (…)
B: Yes
(10)
?: (…)
?: Yes it does
(5)
LM: I’m not sure what shopping facilities there are exactly here 
?: It’s got careers and about us, has it got homepage?
?: Financial services, customer services and there’s search
?: It doesn’t say shopping anywhere, it doesn’t say buy 
?: They do banking now don’t they as well, all kinds of financial services
?: (…)
?: What’s, it is  homepage yeah, go to homepage?
?: Yeah (.)
?: Is it yeah
?: Try search see if that works 
?: Yeah
?: Search for, to search for our stores oh, you can only look at where the shops are
?: You can see which countries they’re in [laughter]
?: Probably everyone except England
?: Yes 
?: What about, no we don’t want, customer services?
(3)
?: Spread range (…)
?: No shopping options
?: There’s not a shopping option at all, no
?:There’s no shopping on it
?: Oh well we don’t like that one
?: No [Laughter]
?: That’s boring
LM: Try another bookmark, if you go up the top, click on that 
?: Try out Tesco’s or something, or Sainsbury’s, Tesco
?: (…) and then (6.0)
?: This is my dream come true [Laughs]
?: Recipes from guests
PL: Which one’s this?
LM: Sainsbury’s 
PL: Oh is that Sainsbury’s
?: You can’t shop again can you?
?: Fresh news, fresh food, fresh ideas
LM: I think you can buy certain things from Sainsbury’s er gifts is probably, or if you can move down there and see if there’s anything underneath maybe (4.0)
?: How do you get it to?
LM: Just
?: That one
B: Yeah, that’s it
(5)
?: That’s alright
(5)
?: It’s trying to do some (…)
PL: I think Tesco’s is the only one so far there
?: (…)
LM: But can we look at anything other that gifts here? Will there not be more areas
?: It’s not opening this, is it?
PL: With the Tesco you can see yeah, you can see some of the products
?: It’s not opening
?: More recipes (…)
LM: What does it say at the bottom bit ?
?: Oh
?: Waiting for reply (…)
?: Recipes, we’ve got recipes [laughter] (4.0)
?: We’ll have dessert
?: Yeah [laughter]
?: In, um I didn’t change it (…) (10.0)
?:You can see how they sit there and get addicted to it
PL: Mmm
?: I don’t quite know what I’ve done there [Laughs]
?: Something (…)
?: I’ll let someone else (…) [laughter]
PL: (…) (6.0)
?: That’s it, oh
?: Wrong (…) [laughter]
?: Quite clever now (…)
?: (…) sounded like dog food
?: I don’t quite know how I got that one [laughs]
LM: Shall we look at the Tesco one, [laughter] so there’s more things to buy there er oh golly
?: Oh Internet super store, that’s the one isn’t it
?: (…)
(5)
LM: So what do you reckon we can look at Pete, without that bit registered 
PL: This is the Internet seems to be
?: Oh yeah
PL: Oh well you can say take a look at 
?:   You see that’s the type of thing I would expect it something to enter something to tell you how to use it 
PL: Right
?: You know that said you’ve got to do the registration so you automatically know what to do Liz, so it’ll take you straight along 
LM: Yeah
?: I feel a bit of a novice [Laughter]
(10)
PL: Er okay so these are the, this is not the store itself, they sell er drinks that they deliver, that gives you an idea of the kind of thing that you can do
?: Do they deliver other things 
PL: Yeah 
?: Do you just click on what you want
PL: Right, right, this sells cases so you go through and choose which ones you wanted
?: That’s a better sort of, I don’t know about anyone else but it just looks more
?: Clearer isn’t it?
?: And you can read it better, it’s got the right mix of colours (4.0)
PL: Do you want to see the record (…) and things there?
?: I was wondering if you could (…) [laughter]
?:Yeah
?: Hours at a time
?: There’s Virgin is on there isn’t there
LM: Now I think I saw Virgin, there’s a Virgin mega store in the CompuServe shopping 
PL:  There might be 
LM: Which I didn’t get a chance to play with, there’s the American one which is CD Now, so we can look at that, maybe it’ll be a bit slow at this time of day.  (18.0) We could, does anyone want to search for anything, anything off the top of your head, you can think of.  You can search for something you can search for artist, title, song title, record label
?: Soundtrack to Titanic
LM: Right okay
?: Sorry, I just like it
PL: Yeah
B: Okay, do you want to do the honours (…) your turn
(10)
?: That’s (…) (7.0)
?: Is it (…)
?: That’d be nice 
?: Well, yeah if you had speakers and
?: Yeah, I was trying to do that earlier I think
?: ‘Cos on Capital Radio’s, the Capital site, you can play some of the things from there
PL: Mmm
LM: Yeah, no well CD Now is one where you can do that, I don’t know if you can do it on here but I don’t (…)
PL: No, it’s not on this one (7.0)
?: Ooh (…)
PL: Did you find that?
?: No it just says click here for 
?:   (…) aswell
?: Do you want to look round here?
(15)
PL: It’s stopped
?: It’s trying to 
PL: Oh no you’re right it’s doing something
?: Is this for recommendation of other things 
LM: Yeah
?: Recommendation for the Titanic film wouldn’t it
?: Um yeah
?: Not my thing really [laughter]
PL: Ah, so it’s finding things that are similar to that
LM: So what do you think of these sorts of services where you can search for something that you want and it’ll give you recommendations for other things you might like?  Any  
?:   I think it’s a good idea especially if you’re at home doing it and taking it you own pace if you go into shops now you feel quite pressurised you don’t quite know what
?: Sit at home don’t you in our own time that’s right
?: We get a music store and you’re searching through, what am I supposed to be looking for
?: You’re not quite sure what you want 
?: You’re not quite sure where the jazz music section or popular music section is, where this you could sit and 
?: Enigma (4.0)
?:Right and this is if we had [Laughs] this is what we could have 
?: So you could 
?: Its something you need a lot of time to sort of 
?: Yeah maybe if you’re got forty minutes 
?: I could spend hours and hours, end up sitting there till three in the morning [Laughs]
?: See how much I’ve spent 
LM: You’d be able to chose one of the tracks from this particular album and play it if you had like the audio 
?: That’s it you get the (…)
PL: Oh that’s interesting (.)
LM: So yeah anybody any other comments about this kind of thing?
?: This has the sound on it
PL: Oh yeah 
?: Do you think its  
?:  It’s got this
?: (…) CD’s or (…)
LM: It’s kind of what we’re trying to find out really
?: I think it’s a bit scary because you give your credit card and you’d spend spend spend 
?: I think it’s, some people will be interested in it in the beginning and then it’ll die out I mean people do want contact I think
LM: Yeah
?: I mean it’s handy if you’re looking for something in particular and you can’t find it any where else and you want to find it, you want to search for something special
?: I don’t think so, I think children growing up will be so used to this that they won’t miss  
?:   But I think this is you know going to hit a peak when people think we’ve got to people will become too isolated they’re going to have to, have to get out basically 
?: That’s the worrying thing of it
?: I think there’ll be a revolt, people think that year 2000, you’ve got to get out there and meet people [laughs]
?: I’d rather sit at home and do all my shopping than like at Christmas spend hours fighting through crowds of people 
?: Yeah
?: Now you see I think that if I had that at home, I’d still go out, that would really start to  
?:   But you could use it to look up things and find out where is this and where is that and then you could just go and do it rather than trekking around the shops
?: You can look up all the cinemas and what’s on at what time
?: Um, yes it would be good to find out who’s got what
?: Yeah what you want and then at least you could go and get it or you could reserve them, that’d be quite useful.
?: There’s things for and against I suppose 
?: The thing with clothes, you couldn’t really buy clothes could you? You can’t try them on, you don’t know what they’re going to look like, unless of course they’re like a catalogue and you just return them
?: It’s a bit like mail order though isn’t it?
?: I don’t like mail order so it’s  
?:   Oh yeah, no I don’t ‘cos you can’t see what they’re like
?: And if you’re doing your shopping and it wasn’t in stock 
?: Yeah 
?: And people like to, when they’re spending their money, I mean a certain amount you use your credit card and everything but you, I think you could get carried away.
?: That’s what I mean you could keep oh I like that credit card number, credit card number
?: I think at Christmas and that (…) CDs rather than having to search through the record store and say that’s and again it’s the leisure  
?:   If you know what you want, if you’re not just going on there and thinking oh that’s nice I’ll have that, you’ve got to that’s it you have to be  more disciplined
?: It’s like with those shopping channels on the telly, you know when you sit there until three or four o’clock in the morning 
?: I’d never think to use the shopping channel
?: No I would never, never but I still watch them because they’re cool [laughter] but I would never phone up and order anything
?: You get some strange things on there
?: Yeah
?: (...) you haven’t got that I mean the woman used to run round and do all those things, but now she’s at work and she’s got five minutes she can do something like that [laughter]
?: I would use it for certain things, again I’d be wary giving my credit card number to, especially when you see that warning come up that a third person might watching, can see what you’ve got you know what you’re doing 
?: If they now you’re going to have a new three-piece suite delivered tomorrow they can (...) [Laughter]
?: You’ll have people out there saying oh yes that’s for us [laughter]
?: And the same thing like you were saying you get letters saying, oh I see you looked at our home page on blahdey-blah and twenty brochures you know 
?:   Junk mail through the door everyday
?: Yeah and you get enough anyway don’t you, you don’t need even more.  But for things like shopping, Sainsbury’s shopping, I think  
?:   It’s always going to appeal to a percentage of the population always  
?:   It’ll be quite useful
?: Isn’t it,  it’ll be a fad for some
?: But for heavy things like things you don’t want to be lugging and carrying like your shopping and big things that you don’t want to carry
?: But I (...) things like that 
?: Yes something like that if you’re ordering something like that and you knew what you wanted because Argos is something like that you don’t see it in the store you just bring it out in a box don’t you, its like that
?: It doesn’t make any difference yeah
?: Holidays, you’d only look in a book anyway, so what’s
?: Yeah, that’s it you can order your um, like BA now, you can reserve your seat and everything on the flight,
?: You can pick what date, time and everything
LM: I think the flights are the same on the Thomas Cook one actually, that’s one where you just select, again like the one with the CDs where you can choose certain factors.
?: You don’t trust them, when you go to in a store to pick your holiday and they’ve got their computer facing you, you think that’s not the cheapest flight 
?: Yeah, hiding [Laughter]
?: There must be something 
?: They could get you a better time than that, you’re convinced that they’re telling you porky pies
?: And it could actually be facing you so you can read it with them 
?: Yeah
?: So maybe those kind of things as you say business people booking flights and  
?:  Yeah
?: But anything that costs a lot of money I would be dubious about doing, yourself especially, in case you got it wrong and you spend like a thousand pounds
?: Certain things you want to touch before you buy  
?: Yeah absolutely yeah
?: Whether it’s CD’s (…) 
?: Or holidays I wouldn’t trust myself doing that, I’d think oh I  got the wrong flight, got the wrong details 
LM: Right, okay. So these would be some of the issues for you know people like Thomas Cook on-line how (...)
?: To make it I suppose really fool proof and then to confirm to at least send you something to say this is what we’re going to do is this what you want and then you would say yes or no
?: But wouldn’t it do that?
?: I’ve been into Direct Line for contents insurance and I’ve done that on-line
?: You wouldn’t want to go away thinking that you’ve got a holiday booked (…)
?: Through e-mail and I’ve then printed it out their quote then
LM: Right so is this Direct Line Insurance on-line
?: They could fax it to you couldn’t they, straight away
?: Well they just e-mailed me back the quotation and all I did was printed it out 
?: Yes so like that I would  
?:   Yeah
?: I would think of that  
?:   Because it gives you some sort of confirmation that what you’ve done is okay
?: (…) probably a lot of the time when you do have an order form or anything they’ll come back and say that it’s been delivered and you know you can print that out 
?: And that’s your proof
?: (...) about sending your credit card across the phone, you’re never quite sure if the ticket’s come through if you’re (...) [laughter]
?: That’s it
?: So it’s a bit like that as well
?: That’s exactly the same though isn’t it, I’ll always wait  
?: It’s like when you give it to someone over the phone its like they can hold onto it and say um , they’ve got your address and they’ve got your name so it’s no more dangerous than that, you’re (...) [Laughter]
?: You know how you have a credit check on your credit card you know you have a certain name or number, is there sort of a hidden way you can put your
?: There’s supposed to be
?: Password into that, that no one else can access your password, is there like a hidden
?: I think there is
?: Yeah they have a security password that only you know about 
?: Your mother’s maiden name, or
?: Yeah, I just wandered how it worked on there like, so if another party had access to it, so if another party could access it, would they get your password as well
?: That sort of page should be completely secure where you’re actually giving that sort of information
PL: What about hackers? Do you think hackers could get in
?: Obviously yeah
?: They’d get in anyway, wouldn’t they what ever you’d done 
?: That’s a worry having, that’s the worrying thing about this 
?: You do hear that don’t you, people drawing money from banks and moving all this money into their own account 
?: There’s no hope for something like this if they can do that
?: No
?:I think you accept a certain amount of that will go on if someone wants to do it it’ll be done  
?:   It happens with everything that you, with money, I mean, even just getting your money out the hole in the wall, I mean they can, if they want to they can get your number from that, I mean you 
?: You hear of people leaving their card in the restaurant 
?: Yeah
?: Yeah they can keep a copy 
?: You never know when someone has jotted your number down
LM: More or less risky than other sort of 
?: No 
?: No, I don’t think so
?: Not any more risky than giving your number over the phone, your card number over the phone 
?: Which you do automatically when  
?:   Yeah, you never say oh 
?: That’s it I must say that I always think you know when they used to swipe your card and they’d have the print of it, God they could give that to anyone and you know
?: I always worry when I see them do it twice [Laughter]
?: I must check my statement
LM: Okay so um, so what sort of I mean some people have said that this will be the death of the high street and shopping everybody will just be at home, what do you think?
?: I think so
LM: You do
?: Yeah
?: No, I still think there’s things you have to touch and feel before you buy, things like CD’s, holiday insurance I could see  
?:   (...)
?: Myself using it for that
?: I could see people getting into a lot of debt too, sitting there, spending more than  
?: Well like you say the youngsters of today if they’re going in to it, well we can look at it as for us, how we would feel, relearning it, it’s still new, but with the children of today are covering it, it’s there for them the whole time, so that’s what, their tunnel vision is (...)  
?:   I don’t know but my children don’t seem so fussed about it, I mean they’ve got the computer sitting there, he wanted to go on the Internet, and I ignored him [Laughter] and it’s passed away, he’s not interested in it no more, but I mean it lasted about six months, when he got his computer and then he’s back to his Nintendo 64, I mean there’s a whole computer system sitting there and he doesn’t touch it. There’s a printer and everything
?: But my daughter if she had that now, she might do  
?:   We’re more interested because we think it’s something that we, we should know, we think it’s technology is slipping us by so you’re a bit more eager to learn where they  
?:   It’s their natural 
?:   Yeah it’s natural for them, they’re not fazed about it.
?: I’ve got a four-year-old who sits and does it  
?:   Yeah and they take it so 
?: Well it’s my niece, she sits and plays with it (…)
?: So I don’t think they will be so hooked up to it
?: I still see a computer as an educational thing, I think it was  because how it was introduced to me purely educational, like it was initially at school, and then national training and then in what I’ve used it for, like for recreation I don’t see it as a facility for playing games on or  
?:   That’s all I see
?: Anything like, and the net for me is like searching for things that I want to know more about or references or you know to chase up different articles that’s just basically how I  
?:   I mean mine 
?: And getting as much use out of it
?:   are 22, 21, and they still, they’re gone to play games. It shouldn’t be, I mean, I got it for them for schoolwork, and er as soon as they left school that was the end of it
?: Oh she wouldn’t , she’d like say can you do this, can you do it on the computer you know, that’s it I’m just going to go off and do it, and here’s the end result (…)
?: I think it’ll give people more time, I think if you can get all the old horrible stuff that you hate doing like your food shopping and things
?: Time consuming to do that
?: Horrible things, but I think people will still go out and shop because they’ll have more time to go and browse around the high street and browse around shopping centres, because usually on a Saturday your main thing is oh got to go and do the shopping and it takes up oh three hours or something, but if you don’t have to do that, if you could do that on a Friday night when you come in then you’ve got the whole morning 
LM: So what would it do to society in the end?
?: With the whole morning free, I think you still would go out because you’ll have the whole morning then free to do the things that you want to do instead of
?: But your shopping precinct would just be full of places to eat 
?: No, no, because you’d still go in and shop 
?: I still think there’s things that you’d want to try on 
?: I mean  I often go out shopping when I’ve not buying anything you still  go and wander round even though you’re not buying anything 
?: But then with your clothes you said you buy things from the catalogue, you don’t know what it feels like until it’s delivered to you, so I suppose that’s no different
?: Yeah and people probably say that about catalogues oh catalogues once we’ve got catalogues nobody will go  
?:  Well they don’t say that
?: No I know but when the catalogues started it would probably have been oh nobody will go out
?: Yes it’s just they’re progressing in different ways I think
?: They’re talking about this food shopping that they’re trying to entice you into using 
?: I think food shopping is what 
?: Is what it will be
?: Yeah, I think that’ll be brilliant 
?: I mean I know sometimes you think oh you’re at work and you think oh I’ve got to go and get the dinner and cook it
?: It would be nice if you could just go and sit back and order it
?: Does cook it as well [Laughter]
?: That would be next take-aways wouldn’t it, you could order out for take-away on there 
?: I’m sure it’s only a matter of  
?:  Yeah, I think it is (.)
?:: Advantages and disadvantages then
LM: So I’m quite interested in talking about more every day kinds of shopping and so on, food shopping and clothes shopping I mean I wonder if  what each of you find pleasurable about shopping if anything, what you don’t like and under what circumstances you enjoy shopping 
?: When you don’t really have anything to get I suppose, I mean if I had to go and get such and such a thing then that’s not fun anymore 
?: It’s a habit isn’t it shopping
?: Yeah, but when you think oh, I’ll just go and have a look, then that is fun
?: I hate it when it’s busy
?: Yeah
?: I hate it
?: Yeah, when it’s busy 
?: I hate having to go to work full-time and then coming out and going  to the shops and you’re sort of running round and picking things up in a hurry and you’ve got about ten minutes to cook it in
?: I suppose again it would be food 
?: Yes
?: Not other, not other (...)
?: Deliver a (…) to your door [laughs]
?: That’s it and like things cans of coke that you know  
?:   Are the real heavy horrid things 
?: That you could just order loads of cans of them and not worry about it, and get it delivered
?: Yeah
?: You could always keep a sub, so you never run out of anything 
?: You’d still want to go and buy your vegetables and your meat because you want to see that don’t you, you want to see what it’s like when you’re buying it, things like tins and flour and bread, anything that doesn’t make any difference  
?:  Washing powder
?: What it looks like, yeah all that you can order
?: I wonder if it’d help transport, I mean if people did have their shopping sort of ordered and delivered, most people hang on to their cars because they think I’ve got to get the shopping home
?: A lot of it yeah 
?: There’d be a lot of things where you wouldn’t have to would you?
?: Cut down a lot on your queues and stuff as well wouldn’t you, you’d have the five items only you know [Laughter]
LM: Right so who do you think these kinds of services are going to appeal to? Will different ones appeal to different people? Which ones might appeal to you?
?: Shopping
?: Definitely the shopping one
?:Thumbs up for Tesco’s
?: Things like CD’s and things like that I would, and the car insurance, insurance for the car and the house, you know because you can chase them up and get quotes and know what you’re , what you can do
?: Holidays, I still think holidays you’d browse through
?: Yes
?: Yeah
?: And it saves that sitting in a travel agents, waiting for someone to see you, you’ve got it there you can just
?: In your own time
?: Yeah that’s it
?: You feel a bit pressurised 
?: Yeah when you’re in there, yeah. you don’t want say to them would you er have a look for Spain, would you have a look for Greece, er would you have a look, and they go [Tuts, sighs]
?: Yes [laughter]
?: Where as you could have a look (…)[Laughter]
?: Row with (…) [Laughter]
?: We’d be just having a look though as well [Laughter]
?: As long as they can’t see you, it’s alright [Laughter]
?: What (...) you’re in if you’re just looking at it [Laughter]
?: I just went in there by mistake
?: Is that home delivery as well [Laughter]
?: Give me that dress (…) [laughter]
?: And they’ll have pictures (…)
?: Oh, my God
?: But they can’t see you so that’s alright [Laughter]
?: Oh God I hope they don’t know (...)
?: Exactly [Laughter]
?: Probably have you clocked now
?: No but you do you just look in especially when they say oh lets see what’s on here
?: I suppose yeah I think it’s actually it’s worth finding out actually what’s in it isn’t it? Cause we just quickly looked in it tonight
LM: What about the danger for children, getting into something they shouldn’t do ? On the Internet
?: You’ve got parental locks and things that you can put on to stop them getting into to things
?: I suppose they’d have to know your pass, you know like your security check for your credit card things like that, hide your cards from them, sort of hide your purse (…) [laughter]
?: (...), but you can’t have my cards 
?: Yeah [laughter]
?: There’s no shops open (...) [Laughs]
LM: Okay, (…)one thing that we were thinking about children what you think is about sort of changes for producers for people like Tesco’s and Marks and Spencers’ 
?: What kind of  producers you mean people that produce products?
LM: Well just the sort of retailers so what different [computer noise] oops something terrible’s happened to the computer [laughter] (…)
?: They know they do (…) though, don’t they
?: Yes
?: I think they project, you know Marks and Spencers’ all the supermarkets put so much money into where the markets going to go and how people are going to shop in the future, so that I’d say it’ll pretty much happen, they’re cornered and they’ve got no where to turn 
?: (...) especially if they’re working on the computers I think that’s the way you’re going to go 
?: With like fresh produce though, it makes you wonder if it will be as good quality like you can go in and say oh I don’t want that cauliflower, it’s a bit, I’ll have that one, where’s if you say to them well I  want a cauliflower I mean it could turn up all 
?: Manky [laughter]
?: And then you’ve got the aggravation would you be bothered saying oh, well I don’t like this one and bring it back, you wouldn’t
?: So things like that it makes you wonder 
?: If it’s something small you wouldn’t bother
?: No you wouldn’t. like anything, you’d say [tuts] oh well
?: Try and feed it back down the computer [Laughter]
?: Like I say I think you’d use it for like your things that there’s no obvious like you know consequences you know your tins and your soap powder and all that type of thing, you could use it, you could actually sort of work out what you’re spending
LM: My final question is um about sort of consumer rights, and implications for consumers if this takes off even in a half-hearted way some of these services become especially big, can you think of any possible implications for regulation or for things that you want to see sort of addressed?
?: From what you said the  
?:   (…) giving everybody access
?: Yeah, yeah
?: I wonder whether they could have on their own sites they’d allocate you as we said before a number as your personal number so every time you shopped you just used that so that number would identify you 
?: Like say a Marks and Spencer account number or  
?:  Yes or like on holidays
?: (…) account number, so they don’t need you there 
?: If you were to book a holiday knowing your home is vacant for those weeks when your away (…)
?: Yes, that’s a good one [Laughs]
?: (…) from home
?: Normally when you go to an estate agents there’s the risk there as well, but I mean  
?:   Not as many people can look 
?: Anyone can look at that 
?: Although I suppose they could get into a travel agents’ computers as well
?: Like your luggage with your address on the luggage just going through (.)
PL: What about small shops as well, because mainly we’re talking about Tesco’s
?: It’ll be the death of them I think 
?: Yeah they couldn’t keep up
?: Well we though the big supermarkets would be death of them and it isn’t (…)
?: But if you go up your local area, there’s nothing there
?: I’ve from a small village at home and  village shops are dying  
?:   They are dying
?: They’re dead, they really are, there’s just no living in them anymore (…)
?:’ Cause the roads bypass them and it’s (.)even locally you go round and it’s, there’s nothing there, just junk shops 
?: (…)
?: Yeah 
?: Yeah it is junk shops yeah
?: I mean people, you sort of say you’ve got the big retailers and you’ve got the small boutique, the individual boutique has gone, you can’t go round and get something individual it’s either big brand names or nothing, ‘cause they compete, they can’t keep up with fashion basically 
?: I think it’d be the big ones that would really be 
PL: Well I suppose any one can set up a site
?: But nobody would know to search for it, everybody knows to search for, again, if you’re up on the high street you’ll find something by accident you’ll go in to it you know, you’re not going to, you’re only going to access things that you know in there so I’d say the main benefits are going to be to the big producers like big names, Marks and Sainsburys’
?: It’s like us we straight away went to
?:  Tesco’s, Sainsbury’s yeah
?: You could get away with something that’s petite woman or extra tall or something unique that somebody’s looking at you’d have to branch out into something 
?: Unless they do like they did that Barclay Square so they did all the shops in that one shopping centre then they could say like Brent Cross everything under one roof, and then you could get the small shops as well couldn’t you, you could get them all in, but the I suppose the big shops would pay for the small ones to be included in it
PL: One of the things that’s developing is er the search, a company that sets up a search that can search any where in the world for a product that you want 
?: Mmm
PL: But again you’re not necessarily going because you’ve been talking mainly about shops that you know already 
?: Yes
PL: Rather than new kinds of specialised  
?:  You’re looking  at the specialised market then aren’t you
?: I can’t think of anything that I’d be looking for where I’d have to search that
?: It would be very occasionally wouldn’t it that you’d ever want anything in particular
PL: Right
?: I mean normally you’re sort of the way you are now, quite happy to just  
?:   But as you say if you’re extra tall person and you’re looking for you know where to go 
PL: But like you  
?:   I suppose certain makes of things
PL: Right
?:  Like if you knew it was made in Holland and you couldn’t import it here like kitchen ware design then I suppose you’d have an Ikea but I suppose you could access their main one there, so buy direct from them 
?: I wanted a book from the Czech Republic and I went in W.H.Smith’s but they can’t import it for you so you’d have to go through the main dealer over there and they couldn’t help you basically, so you’d be looking at something like that
?: There is a bookshop on there, where you can 
?: Yeah
?: Import
?: In what you want and that and they’ll find it for you
?: It means you could go to these Levi’s shops  
?:   You could order it
?: Couldn’t you in America and get all these cheap deals
?: Could you though, could you  
?:   I wonder could you if you wanted to buy a pair of Levi’s could you say well I won’t buy my Levi’s in such and such
?: Tesco’s [laughs] sorry
?: I’ll buy them in America, where you get them for twenty dollars or something, but that would put them, everyone here out of business as well
?: But what would you do about import taxes, they wouldn’t allow you to access it surely
?: You’d have to go to India and buy all the material that I want 
PL: Right
?: They wouldn’t allow that would they, no way 
PL: Do you think that they could stop it?
?: I suppose they could
?: I suppose they can
?: There’s nothing to stop you going on holiday and buying a load of stuff and bringing it back 
?: Yeah, it all depends though
?: Have you got anything to declare, yes a hundred and forty pairs of Levi’s [Laughter]
?: It’d have to be the same duty free thing then I wonder
?: (…) what’s in the package, there must be some sort of tax on it 
?: I suppose they can stop you if you go on holiday, but then you’ve left the country haven’t you, you can’t 
?: You’re not supposed to are you
?: But if you’ve got so much you should to declare it shouldn’t you
?: Yeah maybe they say that, over a certain 
?: Amount, you’ll be charged extra
?: But if it’s a certain amount each day or a certain amount each year [Laughter]
?: (…) in ten minutes you’d put in another order
?: Yes [laughter]
?: Yeah I don’t know how it would work that way, it’s 
?:  That would be very complicated wouldn’t it
?: You wouldn’t be able to regulate it, surely
?: ‘Cause that’s just like phoning up a friend in America and saying can you send me such and such they can’t stop you can they 
?: What about medicines ?
?: Like they can’t monitor every telephone call 
?: Like I say, I mean because other countries can have drugs that we can’t 
?: Well yes, you could Amsterdam couldn’t you? [Laughter]
?: Why? [laughter]
?: Or anywhere
?: I’ve got a friend from South Africa and you can buy slimming tablets over the counter and lots of things they can actually buy over the counter, there’s no regulations on it whatsoever, anyone can buy it, and it’s cheap as well
?: But I mean searches for  
?:   Alcohol, how do they know if someone is over eighteen or over yeah a certain age
?: Yes they could just order 
?: Yeah it’s a (…) isn’t it
?: They could just say well I’ll order a crate of beer and get it delivered
?: If they won’t sell, you know it they won’t sell to me in a store
?: So I’ll just go and use the Internet
?: Yeah
PL: And most
?: Have a party at the weekend
PL: Right and most of the services you’re looking at there are things that you sort of, we were the active ones, in a sense, we were making the choices and we were getting the stuff, but there’s a new development happening whereby they actually push services at you after finding information about you
?: Telesales like that sort of thing 
PL: Right
?: But computer sales yeah
?: I have enough on T.V. with it 
PL: What do you think about that?
?: That’s no
PL: You don’t like that?
?: No
?: How do they do it ?
PL: Well what about when we’re connected to an Internet site we make a link and it can get certain information about us
?: Right
PL: So for example it could trace the different places that we went to and then see what sort of 
LM: What sort of product cycle so it says, so many hits today and it’s registering where  
?:   You haven’t had your double-glazing yet we’re coming round now [Laughter]
?: It’s, I think it’s like the Safeway ABC card that I’ve got and you get, they do send you a letter but if you actually use the zapper to go round they then know exactly what you’re buying so 
?: And how often you’re buying it yeah
?: Yeah and I’ve actually had a voucher from Ariel through Safeway’s just the name and address sent on (…)
?: And because you’re using that yeah
?: Because I’ve gone round the shop and bought
?: Bought Persil probably [laughter]
?: What if you just zap it as you go round but don’t put it through the till then?
?: I suppose it wouldn’t be as bad as  
?:   (…) [Laughs]
?: But it would be not as bad I suppose as people telephoning you all the time, because at least you can see when you look at your Internet you can say oh well, perhaps they’re not interested, whatever, not interested, not interested, you can just delete them, they can’t make you read them can they, they can send them but you can just clear them
PL: Right, right, right
?: I suppose it’s bogging down your time though and
?: Yes
?: Using up your memory
?: If something suddenly flashed up while you’re sitting there 
?: (…) as long as you don’t resist them [laughs] 
PL: And what about loyalty, there’s this thing they can say store loyalty, if you shop in a particular shop, you go to a supermarket and once you’ve made the (…) to go there you get the whole shop there, do you think it would be possible to break that as it were as a consumer and check the prices?
?: Oh yeah, because you’re not going to go to Sainsbury’s and then go to Tesco’s 
?: You normally go to the nearest place where you are or like I do on the way home from home
?: Easiest to park or
?: Yeah, parking and
?: Now you can just check places and get them from everywhere
?: You wouldn’t have to go
?: No [laughter]
?: You’d just have people knocking on your door with your orders all day long
?: But you would do it wouldn’t you, because you wouldn’t say oh well I’ll just buy something from Tesco’s and I know something is cheaper so I’ll just drive to Sainsbury’s and go there and then go somewhere else
?: It’s your neighbours though, they would say, she’s had twenty five men knocking on her door today [Laughter]
?: (…) dateline aswell [laughter]
?: You need somebody there to accept those deliveries when they’re delivered, and you’ve got to have somebody delivering it as well so there’s that traffic and that congestion
?: They’re not all going to deliver at five o’clock on the dot are they 
?: No that’s true and they’re not going to deliver it nights anyway most of them, that’s the 
?: That’s when people are home from work 
?: If you out all day shopping then there’s nobody home
?: You’d have to get an outside fridge
PL: Well like Tesco’s for example allow you to book specific day and specific time for your delivery (…)
?: But if everybody was doing it though, they’ll say we don’t have many five o’clock’s left but we have got a half past four to a three or 
?: Or a ten o’clock at night [laughter]
?: Mornings would suit me fine though, you could have it early in the morning [laughs]
?: Before eight
?: Yeah
?: But what if they didn’t come at eight 
?: Then you’d be going to work [laughter]
?: You’d have to say my shopping never turned up that’s a good one isn’t it [Laughter]
?: I think whatever’s new, even old you still find fault with. Going shopping now you still fault with something 
?: Like those zappers, you were talking about though what a brilliant idea and you go zap, zap, zap and then suddenly is like stupid zappers, like you don’t want to know ‘cause it’s not a novelty anymore
?: But have you done it half a dozen times?
?: ‘Cause you thought normally it’s the poor shop assistant can’t get the bar code to work and then you’re trying to work it yourself  it’s totally different 
?: Or you think you’re missing it and you’re not and you charge yourself (…) [Laughs]
?:They did didn’t they, they thought that was going to be the new way to shop and then, they just stopped didn’t they
?: It took three times as long to do it 
?: I mean it’s only Safeway’s that do it isn’t it
?: And Sainsbury’s 
?: Oh Sainsbury’s
?: What happens when we had a power cut Saturday what happens then 
?: Well I should think it
?: What when you’re
?: If you’re shopping by Internet and the system goes down 
?: Yeah [laughs]
?: (…) before hours Saturday really
?: It’d be like somebody emptying your trolley and pushing it back to the start again [Laughter]
?: Malfunction, start again
?: No dinner tonight I had a malfunction [Laughter]
PL: So I mean you’ve seen a few of the sites here and some of you have played with them before.  What do you think could be done to improve them, to improve what you see, and what would it be like if you could make the service any thing you liked it to be, what would it be like?
?: Simpler I suppose and a bit more graphic, basically people haven’t got the time to search and search and only if you’ve got lots of time on your hands you have
?: (…)
?: You just want to type in what you want and it comes up rather than searching for it 
?: Yeah that’s true so if you were in Sainsbury’s would you have to go through all the whole list and click the beans and then go all the way through and click the flour
PL: Right, right
?: So just type out your shopping list 
?: Yeah and then they would then fill the rest in for you 
?: It annoyed me the fact that you (…) had to wait like a whole page and then you have a page and then it changes so you’ve got to wait to go through six pages to get back to the first one, you think isn’t there like a fast forward so you can jump the pages and go to the page you want 
?: Its like teletext as well isn’t it, you sit there watching the pages scroll and you  
?:   Yeah that’s what I’m talking about yeah I suppose it’s a bit like that, you know to make it like that easier to get to what you want
?: Easier access in to it 
?: Or if they could save your shopping list, and every week you could say I’ll have a repeat of my previous shopping [Laughter] (…)
?: I think you can
PL: You can do that on the Tesco’s one, you set up a list 
?: You’d have your standard list and then add to it
?: So do you think it’s more for women, because I mean we’ve been talking about women’s functions
?: No you could get your husband on there, can you do the shopping tonight oh yes if he goes to the pub after
?: It would require a man who could use Tesco [laughter] (…)
?: I suppose you could look up if you were shopping for cars and
?: Oh yes that would be good save looking round all the big garages and stuff
?: I want to spend this much find me the garage that 
?: Would have a car yes
?: Find me a man with this car [Laughter]
?:I don’t really know if it’s aimed at men or women specifically I don’t know
?: What we’re been talking about has been mostly women isn’t it
?: That’s because we’re women though [laughter]
?: Men would be entirely different they’d talk about pubs and 
?: Garages and pubs and yeah
?: You can’t taste beer through that can you 
?: They might do scratch and sniff though [Laughter]
LM: Can you see any of the men you know shopping on-line?
?: Yes
?: I think they’d get just as addicted once they started on it 
?: Yeah, oh yeah
?: But they would I think they would be bigger
?: Men would be more
?: I mean they would be like computers and cars and 
?: Toys for the boys
?: Yes rather than 
?: Or going to Tesco’s for their beer
?: Yeah
?: Not one crate but we’ll send two
?: Two lorry loads turn up  [laughter]
?: I didn’t order that [laughter]
?: I can see them doing their Christmas shopping on it 
?: Yes [laughs]
?: Definitely, (…) flowers you know
?: Yeah book it in every year for certain days of the year, you know birthdays
?: (…) anniversaries (…) in case you forget (…)
?: They’d only have to remember once in their life and that would be the end of it 
PL: That’s a good idea, you could link it into some kind of electronic diary and it would (…) [Laughter]
?: Write that one down [Laughter]
?: He’s making notes 
?: Children’s date of birth comes up on there and everything, how old are they and what’s their names 
PL: I’d have to ask my father [laughter]
LM: Right okay, has anybody got anything last things they want to comment on
?: Where’s our free one? [laughter] Do you want to spend some money? [laughter]
?: Who’s credit card, who’s got the credit card? [laughs]
PL: Well basically you see it as a thing that’s going to happen 
?: Oh yes
?: Definitely
LM: But you may or may not sort of opt
?: Oh I would 
?: Oh I think I will
?: Yes
?: Oh yes
?: I think everyone will use it to a degree wouldn’t they, like the phone and stuff, everybody 
?: But will you get people going next door and saying oh can I just use your Internet? 
?: Yeah  [laughter]
?: I think I’m of the generation that it wasn’t there until I was in my mid-twenties, late twenties so I’m still a, I still have reservations
?: Its amazing really because when I started work, you had massive great big rooms full of computers and there was all magnetic strips before you went in and it was it was 
?: It was binary when I started, it was (…) programs, I can remember making the programs out for them
PL:Yeah
?: And now you sort of it’s sitting there [laughter]
PL: It’s an amazing change though
?: And that’s the fasination with my generation though just the technology keeps changing and a lot of people are into, want to have that technology, no matter how much they use it they want the 
?: I think people certainly still have a fear, a certain amount of fear of it even just touching a computer, like me I’m never quite sure if I’m going to let it crash or like do something to it that just, I don’t quite understand what is happening to it, so I suppose it’s
?: That’s it, the children are being brought up with it now and they just go on it and into anything, and because their memories are better 
?: It like my four year old neice justs sits and it’s just she spells on it and prints on it and it’s just second nature to her, it’s quite funny watching her
?: Its good though 
?: Oh it’s excellent
?: I mean they start now very young at school don’t they on the computer 
?: (…) school where they were all issued with laptops I think that’s really good
PL: What about different (…) though, because there’s a limit to how fast and how good they can make this sort of thing, one of the limits is the telephone lines, the telephone wire can only get so much information
?: I think it will be combined, I think it will all be as you say, visual on your telephone and your computer but it’ll all be connected, I think that’s going to be the end result, it’ll be your fax everything all there
PL: Right, right
?: As long as people can’t see you when you’re (…)
?: I think if you’re phoning up sick for work it’s not a good idea [laughs]
?: (…)
PL: Well that’s, there’s one development though ‘cos digital television er that’ll allow, once it’s digitalised, that’ll come in the next few years, that will allow much faster and much more, because one of the things about this is that it sits there quietly waiting for us to give it instructions and once digital comes in it’ll be much more interactive, so you’ve chosen that what about this 
?: Yeah, oh God [laughter]
?: American television isn’t it hey come here [laughter]
?: (…) discount if you buy two 
?: Then you’ll get people throwing it out the door
?: You’ve brought this brand for the last four weeks why don’t you try this 
?: Dear Mrs Boring [Laughter]
?: It could try changing my shopping list
?: That’s great, I think we all know what  
?:   That’s not nice because that is too intrusive isn’t it, it’s just too intrusive, you just wouldn’t want it
?: You probably wouldn’t mind it at first, you’d think, oh yes, but then after a while if you started everything that you were buying and they said, ‘oh why don’t you try this’ you’d  be thinking God 
?: You can’t (…) message you’ve got to buy a new one  [laughter]
?: Sue the Internet 
?: Yeah [laughs]
?: I think even things like videos or T.V.’s are you know you can check out prices before you go to the store, so you’d use it for records, things like that
LM: Yeah, I mean do you think that would be something that would appeal about being (…)
?: If I want a video or something (…) you would see which had the best recommendation, the best price
?: You’d go knowing what you’re talking about 
?: Because you get intimidated going into stores like that, well I do, so I like to suss out sort of roughly what I want first
?: Otherwise you go to the library and you sit and look through the Which magazine, it’s nice if you can say ‘I want  
LM:   Well you can look at Which on-line, it’s a shame we didn’t get a chance to do that as there is a Which service on-line (…)
?: You know what we’ll be doing tonight when we get home (.) shopping [laughter]
?: Maybe I’ll come home with you
?: Yeah 
LM: Right okay I quess we should wind up really

Focus group 3, 4.2.98
ABC1 men


Participants:			R
				P
				M
				G
				A	

Comments:	- One person did not attend due to illness
	- All group members quite articulate, no one person appeared to dominate. Bonded less well than group 2 (“as the gentlemen there just said...” etc)
	- All quite experienced with computer technology, especially via work, and most had used Internet. Most of group talked about technical rather than social or cultural aspects of computer technology.
	- Most participants demonstrated familiarity with concept of e-commerce, and R had experience of using websites in buying and selling a car.






























PL: (…) Just start by just going around and saying who we are and just er generally how much experience and er contact you have with computers generally (.) in your work and at home and so on. Do you want to start? R: Yep, er I’m R  um do you want to know what I do? Yeah I work in a clearing bank, um I use computers both at work and at home, um I use computers er network computer and PC’s at work, um and a PC home. Um, both home and work are connected to the Internet. Had a PC at home since August (.) the year before last, so August 96
PL: Mmm
R: Um and I’ve logged onto the Internet, e-mail addresses that sort of thing
PL: Right, right. Done any shopping? R: Um yeah, well (.) in a way, in terms of not actually spending money but spending points. I had um, one of the things I’ve got are Barclaycard profile points
PL: Oh right
R: Um and I ordered from their catalogue using the Internet, um using up my points. And I’ve looked at things over the Internet. I’m thinking about getting a mountain bike at the moment, and that’s one of the things that I research, for example, different brands that sort of thing
PL: Right, okay
P: I’m P, um I’m a sales rep, so again I’ve got a computer um based at home, um not on the Internet at home, but the office computer is on the Internet and to be honest I’ve probably used it once or twice at the office um I’ll always, don’t normally get the chance so very little use of the Internet, but use the database (…) at home for customers things like that
PL: Right, right. And at work as well? P: And at work yeah, obviously after I’ve taken the disk in so they’ve (…) the database at work as well, um so I can update either place um but yeah, very little use of the Internet I hate to say
PL: Okay
M: Um my name’s M um I work for an IT department for an oil company um so I work with PC’s um at work and I’ve also got a laptop at home. Um, we have Internet connections at work, um but they’re quite strictly monitored um and er (.) through a server (.) um what do you call it, a Bureau CompuServe um, is the (…) that we actually use. Um, I haven’t done any kind of shopping over the Internet. We use it for support um agreements at work, um, and downloading patches for er bugs on software, latest information for people like IBM, Computer Associates tracking thoughts like that. Not so much from a leisure or personal point of view
PL: Right, right
M: But I’m quite aware of what’s there and what there isn’t etc etc
PL: Right
G: I’m G I work for a er firescreens manufacture glazing firescreens company. My role is sales administration, so I’ve set up a number of databases there in Access (…)and various other packages. Um, I have a computer at home as well, a laptop, which has is the link into the Internet. I’m not on the Internet at work, although the head office are now just setting up an Intranet site
PL: Right
G: So eventually the technology will filter down to, to our operation I’m sure. Um, I’ve had a play around with it really more than anything else I think if I’m totally honest, I haven’t bought anything off of it. I have seen that Barclaycard recently have said you can pay your bill
PL: Right
G: On it, they say the statement can be covered and er like what this chap was just saying about er looking at the profile points, that’s er, so there’s a lot there but I do find it difficult to actually locate the right site and what have you, maybe I’m just going about it the wrong way but
PL: Right
G: It seems to take a long time to get any information
PL: Right
G: Even things that seem relatively straightforward, um (.) trying to download something just a simple file last night, six and a half hours it would have taken to run, which you know whilst you’re paying for the phone bill the whole time is, er, crazy
PL: To download? G: Yeah, um, you know, estimated time to download six hours thirty-eight minutes or something, so I come out of that er pretty swiftly [laughs] Um so I guess I’m at the early stage you know, the er, the learning end of it, as far as the Internet, but certainly computer use I’ve had for many years
PL: Right
A: A, international sales. Um, I’ve er, I’ve got a laptop um I haven’t got a desktop, I take that into the office and I use that, and I’ve got a Psion hand-held computer. Um, I have sort of clicked in and seen things. I mean British Airways have now got their flight schedules and everything on there I don’t book it through them, ‘cause we have er a sort of an agent which we get a rebate thing, so er we’ll actually get a sort of 5% cheaper (…) so we always sort of  re-book through our agent but um I’ve tried various things though, I mean with a colleague there was a car net thing
PL: Mmm
Pa: Which you could sell your car
PL: Mmm
Pa: Car on, and he er, he put it on there for a few weeks, er, without success but you know [laughter] he put it on there. Um  
PL:   Maybe it wasn’t a very good deal [laughter]
Pa: Er, what else? Er, as I say the BA stuff. I’ve gone in and er, on the American side with like food products, er to see what our competitors are doing, ‘cause they’ve all got website pages now
PL: Right
Pa: So um you know we can see if they’re doing new product launches or whatever. You can er sort of glance into them now and again and get some updated information
PL: Right
Pa: Um, and you know I think in our office at the moment it’s about to be closed down, so we’re going to be set up from home and one of the requirements will be
PL: Right
Pa: To be on the Internet, um so er, I think it’s moving ahead, but we’re still in the early stages of it
PL: Yeah (.) Well you’ve, you’ve all sort of obviously heard about er home shopping and shopping over the Internet, I mean, er what is it that you’ve heard about it, I mean what’s the sort of range of products (…) services and where’ve you heard about it? (.) Other than sort of browsing or finding out stuff and so on (3.0)
?: Good question [laughter]
PL: ‘Cause it’s sort of obviously in the air and (…) 
?:  Yeah, general awareness really that there’s a lot there. It, it strikes me as being too big almost, you know it’s very difficult there’s so many people advertising here. Unless you know, even knowing the exact page locations of things, you know on occasions that er hasn’t located the right page, so er it’s just a general awareness with me, people talking about it
PL: Right, sorry
R: Sorry, I remember Barclays when, you know I suppose it’s all fairly recent stuff, the Barclays maybe two years ago set up er what they called a virtual shopping centre called Barclay Square
PL: Right
R: Um and there was a fair amount of coverage in the papers um and in computer magazines. Um, I don’t think it was a great, well I know it wasn’t a great success at the start
PL: Right
R: Um I think Argos set up places and there were other people, and I remember reading months after it was actually set up the only thing that Argos had sold was some sort of er put-together wine rack, you know like after maybe six months [laughter] so it wasn’t that successful but I, but I’d forgotten I actually bought my car through the Internet  
PL:  Oh right
R: Off er through an Exchange and Mart pages
PL: Right, right
R: But I guess you’re not aiming at that sort of shopping are you?
PL: Yeah, yeah, sure
R: Right (.)
PL: So that was, that was you browsed their pages and  
R:   Yeah um it was just out of interest, ‘cause I actually, I was selling and buying a car at the same time and I’d gotten both Loot
PL: Right
R: Which is the er London newspaper, or it’s regional now as well, they (.) you, you can actually browse their whole paper through the Internet, which surprises me ‘cause you don’t have to buy their paper and I don’t see how they make their money that way, and um I know that Exchange and Mart, they, they um, I advertised my car in Exchange and Mart, but it didn’t go into, automatically go into their um 60p a week magazine, um it was just on the Internet and er, er I happened to see the car that I bought on the Internet before I’d actually see it in their magazine as well
PL: Right
R: I’d forgotten about that 
PL: Right, so we’ve got Barclay Square, cars, what, any other?
Pa: Actually it was funny cause you mentioned that, it it’s like one of the things that came through recently for me was from CitiBank
PL: Right
Pa: And er now they’re doing, you can sort of do your home banking on the PC, and that’s another thing that sort of I think raised the awareness, ‘cause all the banks are getting onto that, that kind of stuff
PL: Mmm, mmm do you think they’re all going to go basically?
Pa: I think so
?: Holidays as well, ‘cause I know my wife like at work has looked through for holidays because she’s on the Internet there and er, I know that’s one of the things that she, that would interest her, but er
PL: Right
?: Yeah so there’s holidays
PL: Okay (2.0) okay well um, we’ve got um as you can see, we’ve got a portable here and we er, and what I thought we’d do is er log on and look through a few sites and get your reactions and comments on (…) Liz is just going to, Liz is going to log on
LM: Can we use CompuServe or the UCL server?
PL: I don’t know, what do you want to use (…)?
LM: University server or we could use CompuServe[laughs]
PL: Yeah, we can use  
?:  CompuServe will be busy at this time of night
PL: Yeah let’s use the university one
LM: Yeah
PL: Less people logging in at university
(4.0) 
PL: Okay, ah you need my password
(3.0)
?: What, is that linked up through a mobile telephone? PL: No, we’ve actually plugged it in to (.) er
?: Right away [laughs]
?: It’s actually a  microphone I think, is that what you thought it was a phone?
?: No, no, I didn’t, I was just wondering because it was a laptop that it was probably, I guessed it was  
LM:  “The line is busy”?
PL: Ah, we might have to go through CompuServe anyway
?: Well is that her line or  
LM:  Yeah, no it sounds like she’s on the phone
[laughs]
?: Try again
?: That’s handy [laughs] (.)
PL: She’s only got one line here (3.0)
PL: No, she’s not on the phone ‘cause it’s dialling 
LM: Okay, so in that case CompuServe it is
PL: “The line’s busy” we’ll have to try CompuServe 
(20.0)
PL: So have some of you tried, er are some of you on CompuServe?
?: I started on CompuServe
?: Mmm I think so
PL: Yeah
?: It’s the most common one isn’t it? CompuServe
?: It’s quite a big one (…)
?: (…) Go through the magazines
?: Like Soft Network
?: Yeah
?: Virgin er have sent me something through which was (.) quite flattering actually, they sent me like this CD (…)
PL: Right
?: (…) I haven’t got a CD-Rom, so they sent it in like CD boxes
LM: Oh right
?: (…) And I thought what’s this, looked like a new disc from Virgin coming through [laughs]
?: (…) You get three hours free with it (…)
?: It wasn’t it was like free fifty hours on-line or something
?: ‘Cause I only use it really (…)
?: Yeah six o’clock I think is actually great, but it’s even cheaper at the weekends (…)
LM: Right, here we go
?: It can be very addictive, you find yourself, I mean I know at work it’s just had to be tied down because (…) just not doing their jobs and just surfing, and it’s very easy to spend a lot of time wandering around with that
PL: Was it you that was saying it was restricted at work? 
?: Yeah
PL: Yes, that’s, how have they managed that? Is it through passwords?
?: Yeah, the account that they’ve got set up at work is a corporate account set up with er CompuServe, and depending on your sign-on and password is er what access you’re allowed
PL: Oh right (.) like the sort of parent controls for children. Okay, who wants to, who wants to have a go? 
(3.0) [laughter]
LM: The ones that we’ve already looked at P are under, uh (2.0) um no they’re on something ooh
?: Favourite places or?
LM: Yeah (…) where sorry?
?: If you go down to ‘Favourite Places’, that would be the most recent ones presumably  
PL:   That we’ve logged onto, yeah
LM: Yeah (3.0) (…)
?: Can you see (…) sit here
?: Yeah [laughs]
?: (…)
LM: (…) go away [laughs] (…) there’s all the ones, there’s some other ones (2.0)
PL: Right, somebody (…) yeah, have a go
?: (…) Let’s go to Marks and Spencer’s, next one down (…) (2.0)
PL: What’s that, Marks?
?: Yeah (3.0)
?: What sort of speed modem is on this?
PL: Well this one’s a
LM: Thirty-three
PL: Thirty-three
?: Right, mine’s a twenty-eight, and sometimes that’s a frustration in waiting for things to download
?: Does that make, mine is twenty-eight, is that making a hell of a difference then between twenty-eight and thirty-three?  
?:   I don’t know that’s what I  
?:   Oh right
?: I’ve never seen a thirty-three working
?: Right
?: Yeah, ‘cause it’s what thirty, they got um up in the forties or sixties now haven’t they? ?: Um yeah, thirty-six yeah
?: The one I was looking at was I think thirty-three or thirty-six
?: Well what they’re shipping out to our reps at home now is um ISDN links
PL: Yeah
?: That’s what we got at work now
?: Yeah
?: Um yeah it makes such a difference, I mean the Internet is great as long as you don’t try and download graphics through a normal telephone line, because um (.) it just takes forever and a day, um ISDN and of course BT and all the suppliers are doing such cheap(…)  
?:   Ah (…) are up aren’t they? Plus sixty-two, make too much profit, that’s your problem
PL: [laughter] This is not actually a shopping site, is it, Marks? I don’t think um there’s a shop on-line
?: No, this is um the latest er, latest annual report
?: What’s ‘home’?
LM: I think they have some gifts and wine and flowers, that kind of thing
?: Home page? ?: That’ll be back to where we started won’t it? (4.0)
?: Mmm, so is there anything else that you know that would (.) talk about their (.)
PL: I think Marks are, it’s not, it’s more like an information er
?: Right
PL: It’s like a website, an ordinary website rather than a sort of shopping server at the moment. I mean, do you know  
?:   One thing I know is  
?:   Is Tesco on-line?
PL: Right, you could try them
?: I know Chelsea Football Club have got a site
PL: Oh yeah, Southampton’s quite a good one
?: Er and that you can, and that you can er um (…)
?: Yeah
?: (…) university (…) Is it Southampton University that’s (…)
PL: Where’s the Saints’ site, did you put that on here? ?: Sainsbury’s is on there
PL: [laughter] That’s not a shopping site
LM: I don’t know if I put it on the er CompuServe one
?: Tesco, here you go
PL: There we go, let’s try Tesco’s (4.0) 
?: So how do you know whether it’s a shopping site until you get in it, or don’t you? (.) You don’t?
PL: No
?: No
PL: That’s what you were saying about
?: Yeah, I find it drives me loopy. It just, you know, you spend ages on there and, and end up coming off  
?:   ‘Baby and toddler’ will interest me [laughter]
Pa: Lift delivery service?
PL: Yeah right, let’s try the ‘Baby and toddler’ (5.0)
PL: Well Tesco’s have actually got a home shopping service going now
?: Right
PL: Have any of you 
?: Haven’t used that
?: No
?: I remember reading, yeah, I think I, it was in the news a year or so back about (…) and that. Couldn’t imagine it being too successful 
?: But are you in a situation where you would be able to purchase your week’s shopping, the same as you’d go into Waitrose or somewhere and scan the items
PL: Yeah
?: With that. That is possible over the Internet?
PL: That’s the idea
?: I think the sort of thing you see is you see the goods so you might go to the Fruit and Veg section or for example, and then you see the different types of goods and you would just click on say bananas, and that would mean add to shopping basket, for example, and then
?: Right, and that basket would be ready when you got in there?
?: I don’t know what happens after  
?:   You give a time, you give a time that you pick up  
?:   Do you? ?: And it’s there er waiting to be picked up yeah
?: And you pay for it there, or over the Internet with your Barclaycard or?
?: Well this is always the million dollar question, because the one thing that um, um the majority of people are scared of is putting your credit card details  
?:   Details on there
?: On the actual Internet. It’s actually secure in that, but it’s er, it would be my main area of concern. Placing an order is great as long as you can pay for it on delivery  
?:   When you get there. Although most of us give the numbers out over the phone now readily for Direct Line insurance or, or you know the, a host of other things where  
?:   They tend to stay in the UK. Give your credit card details out over the Internet and your next bill could be er  
?:   And it could be anywhere  
?:   Showing you er running up food in Brazil and airline tickets in the Australia and er
?: Right, right
?: Well at least you get to travel [laughs]
PL: Yeah [laughs]
?: With air miles, yeah
PL: Right, so what have we  
?:  Oh right, I see, the products
PL: Oh right, so you can just
?: ‘Star Wars Trilogy’ (…)
?: How many of them do we want? [laughter]
PL: Well it gives you the price and you can enter the quantities that you want in there, I don’t know
?: Books and videos
Pa: They’re not cheap are they?
PL: No
Pa: Forty-nine pounds each, god
?: Yeah but that’s   PL:   And you make a shopping list up here by (.) entering the quantities down there and it’ll add it all up for you and make  
?:   Let’s make a bogus order
PL: Go on then, who’s going to have a go?
?: Whose credit card are we going to use? [laughter]
PL: Go on, have a go, yeah, make an order (.) yeah go on
?: I’m sitting in the wrong place here obviously aren’t I? [laughter]  So if we highlight to there 
?: Ultimate golf techniques (.)
?: No, why are we not getting anything up there, oh right, so  presumably we can  
?:   What have you ordered?
?: The 
?: Golf techniques (2.0)
?: Why has it not accepted that? Or has it accepted it?
?: You’d probably have to scroll down, would you? (.) Has it just disappeared that one? 
?: Yeah
PL: Looks like it doesn’t it
?: It was 01 so there was no logical reason as to why that should have
?: Put something, put something else in
?: It’s going in to there, and we’ll  take two of those
Pa: That’s part of the problem is it’s so long and slow and then you’re never sure quite whether you’ve [laughs]
?: Now what’s happened there?
Pa: Whether you’ve done what you think you’ve done or
?: Date order maybe when you’ve done two
PL: That’s it (2.0)
?: Well, whether you might need to put the volume (…) I’ve never used one of these laptops before, so I can’t
?: Well they’re very difficult to get used to
?: I’m used to the mouse
?: The mouse is
LM: It’s quite good if you use two hands actually
?: Is it? LM: One to sort of control the ball  
?:  Mine has got (…) inside which I find slightly easier
PL: (…) [laughter]
?: Put an amount in and then try update order
PL: Oops, pressed the wrong side (3.0) er (2.0) four of them, update order, there we go
?: Yeah
?: Oh right
PL: So now it’s (2.0) updated your order
?: Oh I see, so now you probably want to go to 
?: Well hang on, if it started (…) that was what, so has it gone back to the top of the list again? ?: No, it’s always been at that, that’s where it started from
?: So you’ve still got four there
?: Yes, but we’ve gone back up to the top, we had worked our way down hadn’t we, and ordered something from  
?:   No
PL: No I think it came back up
?: Yeah
PL: Came back up
?: So you want to, somewhere you’d want to see what your total amount of shopping adds up to (2.0) That’s probably in one of the  
?:   It hasn’t accepted the earlier ones then has it? ?: No, because we didn’t press on ‘update order’ at the time
?: Right
PL: That’s it (.) What do you think about the way they’ve set these things up? Do you think they (.)
?: I think they’re still experimenting to be honest, with the way things are working, cause I don’t imagine that, I think everybody thinks that they need to be on the Internet because they don’t want to miss the train, but at the same time they’re experimenting to watch how it all develops um I think they’re probably pumping quite a lot of money in knowing that they’re losing money, but they know that at some point in the future they will make money on it
PL: Right, right
?: Yeah, and I think you spend a lot of time sort of playing around really, trying to get the hang of it, and you’re thinking all the time, you know, you’re making this phone call and it’s ticking away on the bill the whole time, whereas I could have just picked up the phone and  “have you got one of those in stock?” yeah, and gone down there, so you know, maybe it’s useful in terms of seeing what’s available, but at the moment not necessarily for actually ordering
?: I mean obviously there they’ve listed the videos that you would obviously want, stroke books or whatever, but they don’t actually give any
?: You’d expect to see
?: Write-up on it
?: Maybe some pictures, yeah and some details
?: A write-up on it
?: I think that’s what will come. I mean, digital TV’s coming at the end of the year, and you’ll be able to link up to the Internet through that as well (3.0)
PL: Yeah, do you think that’s an important development, when the digital thing comes in?
?: Yeah, without a doubt
?: Yeah (.) I think everybody will have a digital TV set at some point
PL: Right
?: And it will give them that automatic access if they choose to subscribe (3.0)
PL: Okay, this is ‘CD Now’ it’s a CD er
?: There must be a search facility, is there? Yeah, so er
PL: Give it a go, that’s it go on
?: Okay, my dog just chewed up a Joni Mitchell CD, I don’t  
PL: Oh which one?
?:   Really listen, I don’t know cause I don’t listen to Joni Mitchell, but er I have to replace it
LM: [laughs] (3.0)
?: It is C-H-E-L-L?
?: Yeah
?: Er, normally I suppose you could just click, is that the right click to enter?
?: Left one I reckon
?: Left one?
?: Yeah (3.0)
?: That might be the title actually, I didn’t um 
?: Oh yeah, yeah
?: Check to see the artist (…)
?: Yeah I think it’s the other side
?: Yeah, Joni Mitchell
PL: It’s got quite a few
?: So, er, sort by alphabetically, it might still be downloading is it? Yeah
PL: Ah here we go
?: So one of these ones the dog has chewed up at least one of them [laughter]
?: Might want to order one of each then [laughter]
PL: Just to make sure
?: Well I borrowed five because my stepfather’s got such a huge collection (.) and over here you’ve got some info (2.0) I think he’s not too clever with this. (.) Is there a time clock on here, yeah (3.0)
?: Where’s the time clock? ?: So you’ll see, you’ll see the cover now presumably
?: Mmm
?: You might see some details of the titles of the track (3.0)
LM: You can get a track listing  
PL:   We haven’t got a sound card on this, but in fact if you had it um you could play a sample from the CD or
?: That’s right
?: Oh yeah, cause you’ve got Real Audio there  
PL: That’s right
?:   So that’s one of the er software programs you need to, to have
PL: That’s right
?: Er but er and you can listen to short sound samples  
?:   I suppose basically you could record it all anyway and never have to buy it
?: No it’s only short samples
PL: [laughter] Yeah, I hadn’t thought of that
?: It’s only a snatch 
?: I think that’s going to be possibly a problem in terms of piracy that sort of thing, isn’t it? PL: Yeah
Pa: It’s only a, a sample (…) though isn’t it?
?: “If you like this album click here for some great recommendations” I don’t know if that means (2.0) buying it (3.0) (…)
PL: I think that’s what, they’re now going to search through their
?: Right
PL: Er (.) selection, and offer you similar styles  
?:   Oh I see, yeah, same sort of type music
PL: Yeah
?: Yeah, right
?: Sometimes I, on MSM certainly you get a time clock so you know that something’s happening in the background. It’s um  
?:   We’ve got a time clock
?: We’ve got a little (...)   
?:   Oh up there running time  
?: Yeah, there always on there
PL: (…) and then it runs time there yeah
?: Still searching is it?
PL: Yeah
?:  Oh right yeah (.) alpha adviser
?: Yeah that would be useful I was with BT erm and that isn’t, that doesn’t show you at all see I haven’t got a bloody clue how long you’ve been on there or anything else you, you just feel it [laughter] (...) 
? It’s probably one of the options to configure it to show
?: To show it
?: Yeah definitely
?: Right
?: That’s standard practice 
LM: What’s the situation (...)
PL: (…) That’s a shock point
LM: (...) Dot (2.0)
PL: Shall we give that one a go?
?: Find Arsenal instead
LM: That one’s got a merchandise section
PL: Have Arsenal got one?
?: Chelsea have got one [laughter] 
?: They’ve certainly got an official one but I’ve got their unofficial one on my whatnot
PL: Shall we try and find it and have a go
?: Uh yeah I’d have to just go and search Arsenal 
PL: Oh, okay well
?: Is that go is it?
PL: Yeah (4.0) probably some gun factory or  
?:  Yeah [laughter] (.)
?: Remember to put Arsenal FC
PL:  Yeah (3.0) 
?: Although sometimes you have to put in commas
mind
?: Does it matter, does it matter that you don’t put it in capitals or anything or not?
?: Nah
?: Nah
?: You can have wild cards and all kinds of things 
?: Right (…)
?: But the more you can tie it down, the less of a list it throws up especially (…)  
?:   Eh? [laughter]
?: It probably wouldn’t have Arsenal, it’s a small club 
isn’t it? [laughter]
?: It’s the other set eh, they were playing Southampton actually 3-0 (3.0)
?: You can’t have Stevenage who’ve gone up to Newcastle haven’t they?
?: Yeah, that’s right yeah
PL: Yes, I was surprised to hear that [laughs]
?: There’s probably so many sites  
PL:  You might get that on the web actually [laughter]
? Can you still see that A?
Pa: Yeah, yeah that’s fine
?: Service name did not match any, sometimes certainly on, when I’m going through MSM you have to put inverted commas round it 
?: Right
?: Um I don’t know if that makes a difference here (3.0) Um shift (4.0) Does that make it go back? (2.0)
?: Er erm that’s
?: Oh yeah (10.0)
?: Some quite good fanzine match write-ups in some of them  
?:  No it hasn’t found them maybe it doesn’t exist
PL: No, no
?: On CompuServe (...)[laughs] (...)
?: Try Chelsea
?: Yeah Chelsea, I’m sure it must have that (.)
?: You can order goods from the shop
PL: What from Chelsea’s supporters shop? We’ve got this running something I don’t know oh
?: Yeah
PL: Oh is it, you’ve got it there have you (.) I’m just trying to (.) it’s going to find something else I’m not sure what it’s up to (4.0) (…) go for Chelsea (4.0)
?: You haven’t pressed go and didn’t set that running on it
PL: No I don’t know what it’s doing now it’s still searching for  
?:  It’s still, it’s still 
?: Sometimes when it’s outside the um area  
PL:  Ah yeah you have to close this don’t you
?: Yeah 
PL: Yeah that’s it 
?: I think you’ll  
PL:   Cancel that, then we’ll go and (5.0) Oh that’s it, where am I, can’t see it 
?: Looks like (...) (3.0) Looks like all sorts of car makers  
?:  I know what (...) they’ve got bookmarks out for it
[laughter]
PL: Er (2.0) 
?: (…)British Airways or something like that  
?:   Yeah they certainly have   
PL:   Yeah they’ve got it
LM: Yeah there’s a there’s an airline one in the Barclay Square which is book marked
?: Oh Barclay Square is still running that’s one you mentioned earlier?  
PL:   Shall we try that then
?: Yeah
?: Okay let’s have a look at that
?: See this is exactly how I find it drives me crazy (laughs) you just seem to  
?:   Sometimes trying to find the right words to search under  
?:   To search under
?: Is a problem isn’t it
PL: That’s Barclay Square
?: Somebody’s gone, some friends have gone to New Zealand, they’ve set up a web page there  
PL:   Right
?: Photographs all the rest of it so with a full address the bloody thing won’t get in there so you know clearly it’s something I’m doing completely loopy but I’m normally okay with a computer I just can’t seem to master this at all (.)
?: (...) I don’t think it’s that big but
?: Legal and General, I just bought some insurance off them
PL: Oh shall we try them? That’s a sort of financial services one 
?:Is the slash going the right? Oh, did that not matter the slash going the other way (.)
PL: I should think it’s, no it’s okay (3.0)
?: I bought some contents insurance off them 
?: What, over the net?
? No I actually just phoned them up from work ’cos I needed to do it quickly [laughter]
?: Yeah [laughter]
PL: Oh this is nice  
?:   But I know that for example there is, I don’t know if it’s um one of the advertisements on the home page for MSM but it’ll say insur, no, it’s er there’s a erm a magazine advert in one of the Times Wednesday Interface thing and it’s erm a way of finding insurance quotations and I imagine it’s probably a quick way to get the best quote
PL: Right
?: Um without having to deal with other people
?: So was it buildings insurance or contents?
?: Contents
?: Don’t talk to me about that I’m having subsidence problems at the moment
?: I’ve been through that (6.0)
?: Is it able to give you a quote from there? 
?: Yeah (4.0)
PL: So for example you can put in your current mortgage details and income and so on and it’ll calculate what it’s, what then it’ll cost you
?: Yeah
PL: And so on and make a comparison
?: Sometimes it’s, it’s, it’s er amazing that they’ll provide such information for free on the Internet whereas normally you might have to go and pay somebody to do something you can, but it’s that sort of thing you can actually get it done for free (3.0)
PL: Yes, I mean why do you think, why do you think they’ve done that (…)?
?: I think it’s trying to buy into your er into your interest (.)
?: So home
?: You can get a mortgage quote made (8.0)
?: And one of our trained sales advisers will contact you after you’ve answered a few short questions (.)
?: In fact just as you come off the machine 
?: Yeah [laughter]
?: Be straight round the front door [laughter] (…)
PL: What about that, has anyone um, er heard about er ’push’ advertising and that sort of notion?
?: Er no
PL: Because at this point this is sort of quite passive in a way these sites we’re going, we’re ordering the stuff and we’re directing it, but there is, there are moves to sort of um push stuff more in your direction
?: Right
PL: And to monitor your use of the net and then shape what information you get according to the kinds of things you’re interested in 
?: Yeah
?: How do they get that data from you though?
PL: Well the kinds of  
?:   The pages that you’re reading
PL: Pages you’re reading
?: Oh, I see, oh right
PL: That’s, but also, there might be other ways of getting information about you if you make a purchase over the net or something
?: Right
PL: What do you think about that as a, as a  
?:   (...)
?: Yeah, I didn’t realise that (…)
?: That’s a bit more frightening because it’s bringing home how much information they’ve actually got about you we all realise that by having store loyalty cards and everything else they’re starting to know (…)  
?:  Probably search my address and find out it’s not (...)
?: ’Dear Mr Windsor’ [laughter]
?: Yeah
?: Exactly
?:  (…) picture and that’s rather worrying when you know it’s going beyond the shopping into general interest and what have you, God knows what sort of things I’ll encourage through the post [laughter]
?: Exactly
?: Yeah
PL: What kind of services do you think might develop in reaction to that (…) (.)
?: Mmm (.)
PL: I mean for example a company could set itself up to manage that process for you, it says okay we’ll, you know you go through us, we’ll control the links (...), do you think  that sort of thing will develop? (.) 
?: Form a sales promotions agency or something that they track how many times you’ve gone into that website and then er, sell it on to a company, you know these people regularly  
?:  Oh that’s too much information 
?: Yeah it is, isn’t it (2.0)
?: That’s that might be er, we’re just trying to fill out some of this form  but it’s asking for so much information, it’s quite an awkward position as well 
PL: Yeah right  (.)
?: There’s a lot of jobs advertised for you know sort of consultant website you know kind of controllers and all this kind of thing developing all over the place um so there must be quite a substantial amount through these big multinationals 
PL: Must be a lot of jobs going at the moment to write, to actually scope and write up these websites 
?: Well if you’ve got Java skills you can name your own cheque in the erm um at the moment
PL: Yeah
?: Well second only to SAP but erm  
?: It’s like year 2000 problems aswell [laughter]
‘cos if you submit it  [laughter]
PL: Yeah go on, have you got your credit card ready?
(2.0)
?: (...)
?: Did that actually, I don’t know it that actually took ?: Didn’t it?
?: Er I think if you  
?:   (…) I don’t know, scroll back to the top (2.0)
?: I think ’cos erm (2.0) it needed, right 
PL: What’s that at the bottom, ah right so you’ve actually made a bid for a mortgage quote
?: Yeah for Mr er Ben Johnson [laughter] Johnson Ben
?: At some fictitious address [laughter] (.)
?: It’ll probably  
PL:   Unknown address [laughs]
?: Search the postcode and find it doesn’t tally and say get stuffed
?: Thank you for your personality
?: Oh
?: [laughs] We’ll be in touch
?: Ringing on the doorbell of 1 The Abbey (2.0) I thought they would generate an answer for you there actually
PL: Right, right, yeah
?: I wonder if that, I bet because of that they get a lot of um, dodgy information that they probably get a lot of leads that they follow up and find out they’re bogus (.) 
PL: Unless you say they could check there
?: But they’ll waste a lot of time won’t they?
?: No worse than cold calling though is it?
?: No I suppose not
?: Very true, yeah (.) I suppose that out of all the duff ones that they would get there’ll probably be sort of 30 % or more that are genuine
?: Yeah (3.0) 
PL: Okay, any more sites we want to look at? Let’s have a look at what we’ve got in here
?: Financial services, supermarkets um  
?:   I can see actually
?: Merchandising
?: This type of thing being quite big in the future because people are very sceptical about these er financial services sales men coming round they  
PL:  Yeah
?: (…)they’re all buying you know insurance over the phone so this is great because you don’t  have to deal with them anymore
PL: Yeah
?: Yeah
?: And as you say you can do it at your own pace 
?: Yeah
?: And there’s no sort of erm negotiation there really, it’ll come up one figure and that’ll be it, it’s not going to say anything like, hum and hah about it
PL: (…) here we are, so you’re there
?: I’m in the running for a holiday this month, so I’ll give you an extra fifty quid off or whatever, sure (2.0)
PL: Oh so okay, so this is Which on-line (9.0)
?: Search Which on-line
PL: Right
?: Oh dear I can’t (…)
PL: What have you done there? (…) up there? (5.0)
?: I think you need to put in again, another button got pressed the last time
?: Did it?
?: Yeah (3.0)
?: There we go
?: Press return
?: Do I press return?
?: Yeah (.) (…)
PL: Yeah, there it goes (2.0) ah okay
?: (...) Christmas (…) plenty of choice (2.0)
?: (...)
?: Thirteen hundred and eighty seven matches that (.)
?: Ah
LM: My god
PL: So this is the information that they’ve got about er different aspects of life
?: Mmm
?: So you could narrow it down further if it I mean er (…)
PL: Oh that’s true (.) (…) oooh, what’s that say? 
?: User name and password
?: Actually the network’s sign on 
LM: I’ll have a go
PL: Yeah go on
LM: Anyone got an account [laughter] (7.0)
PL: So do you think it’ll be more use for erm particular products or services and not for others? (2.0)
?: I have to say  
?:   I think it’s a question of use isn’t it? Because you know er erm at the beginning you’d asked which things people had bought etc, I don’t think you think about the Internet first off just because you’re not used to you know buying things over the Internet
PL Right
?: You know five years down the line when everybody is using it like the normal  
?:  It’s like tele-shopping, um TV shopping was a thing sort of five or six years ago that was the
PL: Yeah
?: Sort of next launch into sort of, sort of home shopping as such, and this’ll take it a step further I mean to be honest the only reason I probably use the Internet is rather than going down to a library to try and find information out there about certain things erm
LM: Like Which (...) you might go to a library
?: Yeah so I mean hopefully everything that would be in a library should be on here for company information and everything else and yeah, I suppose eventually you’ll end up being that lazy that you will do your shopping and everything else on it
?: Certainly the idea of flights and someone was saying about British Airways and, and flights and were you saying the schedules are on there already
?: Yeah
?: So you can actually do all of that and do you know if you can check availability and terminal?
?: Oh yeah
?: That’s all possible now 
?: If you want to do flight plans as well so you want to know what interconnecting flights and times it’ll do all that for you
PL: Right, right
?: I think it’ll only apply to certain types of products aswell, for example erm if you wanted to order books or CD’s or financial services or flights or things that, things that you don’t have to touch and feel, but if you were going to do your weekly shopping you know buying bananas or fruit you can pick and check them that they’re at the right stage of ripeness or if it’s clothes they want to  
?:   (...) couldn’t you, you, you might be able to do the bulk of it for standard stuff that you get
?: Yeah maybe but it’s so much easier to go down to a supermarket (.)
PL: I don’t know you see (.)
?: Surely with supermarkets they’ve got to go down the road of having just a card on the wall haven’t they, for a lot of those items and not having things on the shelves so that you just scan in a picture of a tin of Heinz baked beans and you don’t physically pick it up, but that’s scans to somebody out the back and that item is then picked and loaded into a box surely that’s the way that’s
PL: Maybe but what do you think the supermarket
LM: (…)
?: Yeah
PL: What do you think the supermarkets can do to overcome (…)?
?: I think perhaps what, what’s it would go with would be other add-on services such as home delivery
PL: Yeah
?: Or maybe somebody said earlier on just preparation of it in a certain pick-up area, they might benefit, but I, I personally don’t think I, I mean when I if, if we’re talking about supermarkets in particular when I go shopping I tend to er get ideas as I go along
PL: Mmm
?: Um and I quite well I can’t say I enjoy that experience but that’s like, part of your living isn’t it
?: Mmm
?: It’s a different, you know for example dinners  or different products I bet you can you can still gain those ideas looking at them on-line, but I don’t know, I haven’t,  never tried it
?: Can’t you do this virtual walkabout in a supermarket?
?: Yeah
?: Don’t they have that, I though they did
PL: Well you can, not on this sort of er service because the er er speed at which you have to get the information to go about  
?:  It’s quite limited
LM (...) develop things like that or it’s one of the (…)
?: Yeah
PL: It’s actually just a checklist of products and you just tick off the ones that you want 
?: Oh right
?: We were talking about cable shopping earlier on and I mean the obviously the benefits cable TV have got they can demonstrate the products so you can see them from all angles and they can actually move and you can see them working, whereas with the Internet it’s still all relatively slow
PL: What’s interesting about cable is that  
?:   What are you after now? (…)
PL: (…) Something like cable to connect into peoples homes they haven’t got the digital cable (...) people’s homes
?: Mmm
PL: And that would be a direction that it could go
(2.0)
PL: Okay so what about, say clothes shopping would you imagine using it for that no?
?: Catalogue shopping seems to work, like Freemans and Littlewoods for a lot of people I think they’re big industries and  
?:   I think that’s yeah for a lot of people I don’t know anyone that does but
?: I’d rather try them on first make sure the size and cut is right and the quality is good (.)
?: Yeah but
PL: So for the catalogue services there could have advantages to being on the net?
?: Oh yeah
?: Well certainly Argos and people like that where there’s a range of well known commonly used 
PL: Right, right 
?: Items then that certainly would lend itself to it um
?: The only thing on sort of clothes shopping and food shopping as such, I like to sort of for clothes shopping you like to feel what you’re buying and sort of yeah, see, physically see what you’re buying the same with food, certainly if something looks appetising you’re more likely to pick it up and say I’ll try it, that looks all right um, than anything else but
?: It may benefit because of other improvements in, for example home shopping and I mean Next, Next directory I don’t know if they led the way but for example in the way you can get either next day or forty-eight hour delivery you don’t really have a problem with returns if things don’t like, if you don’t like things so that may benefit the Internet provided they also provide those services. The other thing I suppose is that you can do your shopping um across the, across the Atlantic you know if they can make delivery from America to this country for example, um PC’s might be a lot cheaper in America so if you  
LM:   Well CD’s on CD Now are considerably cheaper
?: Yeah um with the erm European Currency Unit coming in erm maybe buying your goods because you’ll know what prices are in this country as compared to France because they’ll be in the same denomination you night decide that the supplier in France  
PL:  Right, quite right (…)
?: Is cheaper so that might help
?: It suddenly disappeared off screen didn’t it
PL: Where’s that?
?: From where you were (.)
?: Um there was no (.)
?: What did you ask for, football images wasn’t it?
?: Football clubs
?: On-line score or something like that I think and then there were no (…) Chelsea presumably  
?   There were no scores so I clicked it to go back to the main menu and it went back to that main menu
?: Right
?: Rather than the football main menu
?: Right okay
?: But that’s probably me not knowing what I’m doing rather than (laughs)
?: Yeah
?: So we’re now in something completely different
PL: You were talking about security issues, about paying over on-line, do you think that’s a big problem?
?: Mmm
?: Mmm
?: It is, it is a big factor I mean we are sort of all I think in a situation where we’re comfortable giving that number over the phone and you go to a restaurant and the card number’s taken, disappears out the back and you know, so somebody could , do something with it but there is the aspect that this gentleman was talking about where you’re opening it up to a world wide 
PL: Right
?: Um which could be more difficult to get your money back if you had any problems or er you don’t know what the situation would be with the credit card companies, how do they prove that  
?:   Well that’s what I’m wondering 
?: (…) That you made the order for the new car in Mexico you know
?: In Mexico yeah 
?: That’s right  
?:  You’ve got legal protection over like credit cards, you’ve got legal protection over twenty-five pounds but the banks haven’t been very forthcoming in saying well you don’t have to worry about giving information over the Internet because you’re not liable sort of thing so it makes you wonder whether or not they will fall back on something but I know that the banks are introducing things, I think Barclays are introducing something like a purchase card which is specifically used for Internet shopping 
?: Barclay Coin
PL: Right
?: Yeah Barclay Coin’s another one erm which they’re and they’re trying so many different erm er codes, encryption codes where you’ve got er billions of er different combinations erm to make it impossible so that you can do safe shopping and I believe that er I wouldn’t be too worried myself about giving my credit card number out
PL: Right
?: And I know the problem with shops from when I used to work in them is that just on mail order unless you deliver to the actual address given, urm you’ve got no way of checking that it’s the right address that they’ve given you, but if you deliver to that address and it’s wrong, you know, you know there’s, there’s so many loopholes that you could go round it’s frightening
?: Mmm
PL: Well mainly we’ve talked about services that we know already like erm available, what about new services developing, new companies specifically, marketing on the net, what do you feel about that?
(2.0)
?: I think the net is still a niche market
?: Yeah
?: Mmm
?: Um I think they say something like um nearly one in two homes in California have an Internet connection, whereas in the UK I don’t think it’s much higher than one in a thousand have a private Internet connection, a lot of people have it through business
PL: Right
?: Erm, and as this gentleman already said, that erm, er the cost of erm, er linking up is a factor er for people whereas in the states local calls are free erm and so you’re linking up to your local service provider so it’s not costing you anything er for er for the time that’s being spent there erm and that’s the, I mean it’s quite specialised at the moment I mean erm, what is actually there erm if they’re looking to throw it open to the general public, I mean erm fifteen years ago you wouldn’t have said that every one would have a video recorder, television and the likes in their house and now they’re all common practice and all linked up er
PL: Well right yeah  because these things always start as a niche er market don’t they? (.) He said trying to open the er
?: Press the eject, man
PL: I don’t think it’s got an eject button on this
?: Hasn’t it? (.)
PL: Oh, there you go (8.0) Yeah so you, you still think it’s a niche market but these, some of these developments are mass market developments aren’t they? Like the Tesco On-line, you were sceptical about that right, you didn’t think it was a goer?
?: Erm simply because, erm, for the reasons that I enjoy, well I don’t enjoy going, I go shopping, um it’s more convenient to actually get in the car and go shopping
?: (…) down the Internet (…)
?: There’s a two tier system possibly where lots of things you do know that you, you know tins of beans or (…) whatever
?: Yeah
?: Yeah
?: So if you could do it on two levels so you’d cut the time in the shop by half or three quarters  
?:   Yeah, just going shopping for
?: You’d just go for fresh items or you know
?: True
PL: Well the way Tesco are doing it is that they’re actually er they employ people who are like expert shoppers as they call them who go and take your list and go and do the shop for you and they select the products (…)
?: Mmm
?: That’s, that’s the other  issue as well I mean if ’cos I remember something about Tesco’s, and if it weren’t Tesco’s in particular that were for example looking at this research I don’t like Tescos as a, as a  shop, I’d rather maybe Sainsbury’s or Waitrose so it would have to obviously be one of those two shops that I would use
PL: What do you think about that? I mean Tesco’s are developing that service, Sainsbury’s, Waitrose haven’t got one yet and  (…)  
?:   Yeah but Tesco’s want to be leader don’t they, and they have to be seen to be leading and erm so therefore they’re, they’re doing everything they can to be one step ahead of the competition so
PL: Do you think the others will have to  
?:   Oh yeah I think so
PL: Come into line?
?: The only thing just wrong I mean I certainly think (1.0) I mean to be honest the web’s really sort of the last what five years or so has come about, but it’s so big anyway  
?:   (…) Wrong line
?: Has it?
?: Great tailor
 ?: That I think they’re going to have to go down, you’re going to have to go down like a yellow page, pages type layout where you’re going to have everything under, say five or six different headings so as you can try and get to things quickly because even just playing on there I’ve struggled to find bits and pieces
?: But you soon  find that once um you’ve been using it for a while you tailor it and put bookmarks in
?: Yeah, yeah
?: For what you want
?: Right
?: And as you say once you find somewhere ’cos it is a needle in a haystack job sometimes
?: Yeah, yeah
?: Er once you find somewhere you just put a bookmark there
?: Find it easier
?: Mmm
?: And in future so you would sort of um group them all together as shopping/leisure/travel um sports equipment dudderly duh all of those facilities they’re all there but yeah generally I’m uh a lot of them will, as they progress the releases of software that come out now, come with um ready made bookmarks in them and you can start from there and you can tailor make them and as and as and how you want it, I think they’re just scared of being left behind at the moment, I mean you, what is it, was it Safeway or someone who started this sort of in-house points  
?:   Yeah
?: Cards things and everybody went ’oh it’ll never catch on’ and they all had to eat humble pie  
?:   That’s right
?: And bring out, bring out their own versions overnight so
?: Yeah I think those were far more of uh developments that the other ones had to latch on to straight away that reward cards and the incentives and the petrol stations and things like that
?: Yeah
?: But erm I don’t think they have to get onto the Internet as quickly as, I think they you know they could quite safely leave it although that said it developed so quickly I imagine they could leave it at least twelve to two years, twelve months to two years
PL: But you that’s a relatively short time  
?   Yeah (…) you’re trying to build something  
?   In terms of technology you don’t know what’s going to happen in such a, in such a short time but I mean I think, I think well with reward cards, for example I think they had to be in there within two or three months otherwise they could lose a large chunk of market share and I know that the retail supermarkets is where is one of the industries where competition is at it’s most fierce
PL: Right so (.) well okay so in a sense you see it as part of Tesco’s marketing strategy but do you, do you mean by that it’s not a serious sort of service as it were?
?: Yeah I, I think that’s right, I think it appeals to the, first of all you’ve got to have a , a computer user and then you’ve not only got to have a computer user but also an Internet user um and I think they’re kind of the more sophisticated niche side of, of society at this point and I think it’s going to be some years before that becomes more widespread which probably allows the other erm supermarkets that much extra time to catch up 
?: It would also be interesting to see, you know generally speaking whilst in a number of cases the man will shop aswell, in most households the wife will certainly be a key player in that you know, nine times out of ten she’s going to be involved. Guys may go along but it’s rare you’d have the guy doing the shopping and the wife not interested at all or not involved urm and is the wife in the household likely to have any input into the Internet? Yes in a small number of cases but when we’re talking about one in a thousand people if that’s close to accurate, having the facility in the first place, and of those one in a thousand, how many would the wife you know how many situations would the wife have significant interest to actually get into that, you know at the end of the day when the kids have driven her loopy, is she going to want to sit around and play around with the computer, so, so the  
?: (…) time aswell, at the end of the day  
?:   I think trends change though 
?: Mmm go on
?: I mean if you’d said five years ago er Sunday shopping would take off to the er erm 
?: The extent that it has, mmm
?: Trend that it er that it has done now people have said ‘You’re crazy, no Sunday, day of rest, we’re not having any of that sort of like  
?:   Yeah, twenty-four hour shopping as well, Fridays and Saturdays or whatever
?: And now they say it’s near enough the busiest day of the week, sort of like er trade wise so er
?: That’s interesting that twenty-four hour shopping I mean I still can’t see the point, but there must be a reason and similarly there must be a reason  to provide Internet services (…)  
?:   So when the pub shuts you can still go and get your bread
?: Yeah [laughter] I can’t see that they’re actually making money on that but, presumably they are or they’re claim to otherwise they wouldn’t  
?:   The point is the store is open anyway, I mean essentially the people are working in there  
?:   Stacking shelves or something
?: Stacking shelves or whatever so it’s not such a big issue
?: Yeah, I suppose they’ve got such a skeleton staff working at that time of night it doesn’t  
?:   I’ve never been in but I’ve passed like Tesco’s Brent Cross quite a number of times, I’ve never been in there late at night but you see the odd car or whatever pulling out it’s, yeah it’s weird
?: For shift workers and the like, it’s going to appeal to them isn’t it?
?: Yeah
?: Yeah, that’s right
?: Insomniacs [laughter]
PL: But do you think there are any other reasons why, you were saying Sainsbury’s for example or Waitrose are lagging behind, I mean would they see any disadvantages to these sorts of services do you think?
?: I don’t imagine the cost is great in terms of the whole turnover of the business so in terms of the money that’s put into it I don’t think that’s an issue
?: It’s logical that people like Sainsbury’s you know they’re developing the financial services (..)
PL: Yeah right
?: And so in order to do that through the Internet is a logical step for them to take
?: That’s maybe yeah it’s a foot in the door, and Tesco’s as well they’ve got their own account, haven’t they?
PL: There’s this good old fashioned marketing issue of (...) you know. They want the customers maybe in the store rather than doing their shopping outside
?: Yeah I mean I’ve heard (…) you know that people do massive studies on the way that, I mean to me, you know a shop is laid out however it’s laid out but I mean, you know there’s an awful lot of work that goes into, you know what is presented to you as you first arrive and what’s in certain aisles and what’s at the checkout tills as you leave  
PL:   Right
?: And there’s loads of data that’s gone in to see the best way to get people to actually spend the money urm
PL: Right, that’s quite an investment 
?: Yeah
PL: That they’ve already made
?: Mmm
?: Yeah
?: The other issue, I mean the main issue for supermarkets in my opinion is actually buying customer loyalty and you don’t, it’s not like a bank where you’ve got your accounts and they’re fixed and you’ve got all your  standing orders, direct debits and cheque books out, you know you can really just decide when you get in the car that you’re going to go to a different supermarket um so I don’t know if the Internet will buy loyalty, I mean for example yesterday Sainsbury’s, my local Sainsbury’s put a leaflet through my door saying that um what they’re doing now is these special boxes, containers where you put your groceries in to push special trolleys so you purchase these boxes once you purchase them, I suppose you feel, that you know you’ve made an investment in them urm, you can’t use these boxes at other supermarkets because they fit in special trolleys  so that they’ve bought your loyalty in a form of way um which is quite clever way of doing it, I have no idea how much they cost but I can’t see the loyalty of um the Internet, how that’ll buy into loyalty [cough]
unless there’s other add-ons that go with it
PL: Presumably it might have the other effect, I mean you could  check out the prices of a particular  
?:   Prices, yeah
PL: Yeah
?: ’Cos I know they, Comet do, there’s er top 100 selling items or something on a weekend paper so you can check out what price
?: They call it Price Check
?: Yeah, that’s, yeah so you know I would suppose if you wanted  to sort of tot up a fictitious shopping bill and only get bread and milk every week you could see whether you would be saving anything
?: Providing that’s accurate, and there’s not you know ‘cos when they do a price discount, how quickly does it go on the net? I mean is it instantaneous or is it (.) there might be a lag time (…) go to a shop and find  
?: For example if I was going round five different supermarkets you know you get these items there  
?: Yeah  
?:   Twenty quid just, twenty quid just spent on trying to find the place
?: Yeah, that’s right yeah
?: Then there’s the other way of building it in how much reward points might you have gained, in terms of how much was that worth in going to Sainsbury’s against the other club card that you get somewhere else, they’re, I think they’re hiding their prices to a certain extent these days, so that makes comparisons more of a difficult factor (.)
PL: Yes, and obviously they have control, you’re going to download urm, the er information about their products that they have, they can tell you about some of the discounts and not the others, that’s right. But what about um the consumers erm er sort of position in relation to that, I mean are there any advantages that it brings to the consumer, and are there some other sort of problems that this is likely to bring to the consumer, what sort of advantages do you think it would bring you? (2.0)
?: Well it speeds sorry
?: Go on
?: It speeds up the time that you’re there, you know if you’re using that sensibly it can speed up the amount of time you’re having to put into it and er given that a lot of the people that are using the Internet are going to be er you know guys where time is very critical, yes it’s a relatively small section I would have thought you know, when you look round the average supermarket store, on a Saturday or whatever you don’t see loads of the people there that you would immediately think of having Internet facilities at home, and what have you
PL: Okay, so I’m getting is a picture that, you know  part of it’s the speed, the times of connections that you’ve got, the kinds of services that are available now, the fact that you’ve got to have a relatively expensive computer to use it, but what about home shopping using other forms of technology? Say  Digital Television (…) is that going to expand this kind of market?
?: Slowly, ’cos not everyone’s going to go straight out, ‘cos I think they’re carrying on normal terrestrial TV for five years so you’ve got that lap-over period before everyone has to go digital, which okay in five years time then yes I’m sure the Internet and everything else will be vastly bigger and everyone, more people will be using it but initially I don’t see digital will make that much difference, personally
?: Part of the issue we already talked about was er download speed times and er for example I think you mentioned digital TV I don’t know if it’s going to enable it to download any quicker or if it’s sort of fibre optic cables or anything of the like, but for example er I can imagine doing your Tesco shopping and you click on a tin of beans and you wait for the picture to download, if that’s what happens if it’s instantaneous, that, that’s got to be something to help encourage people
PL: Erm, so ideally if you could sort of have some virtual images and
?: Yeah
PL: You were saying about like walking through the supermarket  
?:   Supermarket music no less  [laughs]
?: Yeah
PL: It would be more like [laughter] maybe you could have a control (…)
?: (…)Shopping experience as you’re walking down the aisle  
?:   Well it means that you don’t have to  
?:   (…) [laughter]
LM: (...) How much they have to replicate the 
(…) shopping experience
?: Can someone go to aisle eighteen, there’s a liquid spillage
?: Spillage, yeah [laughter]
?: But it does mean  you don’t have to deal with the queues of parking in this, I suppose you have to go and pick them up in some way, maybe there’s a special delivery or pick-up area, but you won’t have to deal with the, the parking problems  
PL:  Yeah right
?: Other people’s trolleys in your way, the busy fruit section, the erm queuing up at the tills, and things like that, they’re, they’re benefits
PL: But don’t you, don’t you enjoy this er aspect? [laughter]
?: One thing I was going to say as well, I, I see from their point of view that the supermarket that they can push certain items say you click in there,  feature of the month is you know the er new rack of lamb sort of chop or whatever at special price and you know, push it into your, into your face, so you click on and the first thing you’ll see is this new feature erm so they can do special promotions and run them, and sort of get all the manufacturers to pay for them as they normally do anyway but erm, it’s a new, it’s a new medium for them 
?: But what I mean, what you’re talking about is erm sort of data warehousing and what they’re saying is they’ve got your e-mail address and they build up very quickly a picture of what you like to order like this gentleman was saying about erm baby and children things it is a piece of cake for them to customise a list that when he logs in the next time, the first thing it says is ’we’re doing a special offer on nappies’ or whatever, er that is not rocket science and that technology is here today, er, you know without, erm, any problem at all
PL: And what do you think about that?
?:That’s the way, I , I can see it becoming electronic junk mail erm
PL: Yeah
?: Um (.) if it’s something you’re looking for at the time there may be an interest in it and if they’re not, you won’t even bother
?: Personally at the end of the day all it is, is providing you with information, rather than waiting for you to walk in a store and when you get to the check-out they suddenly realise who you are and they say oh by the way, such and such is on special offer, if you are linked up to them on a net basis or what have you, they can get the special offers straight to you and provide you with the information which is all, I personally feel the net is, it’s a big information, a big library really, in your house, erm and it’s up to you whether or not you want to go shopping on it or whether you want to go and download the latest games, and information or whatever (2.0) 
PL: Well mainly what we’ve talked about sort of er quite large scale, retail operations, what about smaller retailers? (1.0) Are they going to, what’s their position going to be relatively? (.)
?: Go out of business, get swallowed up, generally 
?: I think a lot of the smaller ones erm have got big overall buying companies anyway erm ‘cos I know a lot of the, when I used to sell to the TV Video industry erm all the independents have got like a big buying company erm that supplies Europe and the UK and the buying company actually is three times the size of the Comet or Dixons in terms of buying power and you don’t know that because you think it’s a little independent shop but they’re linked into this big buying group that give them better prices than Comet and Dixons can ever get 
?: Yeah, even the little Golf Professionals, you know the small guy in the local club is actually linked into a group (…)
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: A net-wide distribution, yeah
?: Yeah so I think even the little supermarkets are probably linked into a big cash and carry or buyers merchants somewhere that 
PL: Right and they’ll use electronic commerce  you know within, within that but they don’t market directly, you know they’re suppliers admittedly a large organisation (...)don’t market to, to individuals
?: If you’re talking, if you’re talking about a small sole trader on the high street for example in terms, is that what you’re asking in terms of what they’re marketing capability,  well I er I don’t know because the problem we were saying with the Internet sometimes is that you often use keywords to search or addresses and I never write down the addresses to remember them so if it was Sainsbury’s for example I’d search for Sainsbury’s, but they’ve, because they’ve got such a big brand name it’s relatively easy to find them, but if it was a small er high street outlet, you’re never going to find it in amongst all the data that’s generated from research,  I think that’s a problem for them 
?: But that can go back to your service provider in that erm er what a lot of the local well er what they tell me in the States is that the service providers set up their er home web pages that enable you to click upon local services, what local services are you interested in, the plumber    
?:   It’s just like a yellow pages 
?: Yeah and the Thompson Directory, effectively you’re on-line for you know, in this area where do I do that, it’s just all customisation it’s supply and demand
?: Which really the service providers have got to organise er a menu system or set up plan for that, rather than leaving it to the little sole trader ‘cos if you know you’re looking for an electrical appliance shop, or a hardware shop or something like that it should then give you a list of all the hardware shops whether you want the big multinational Wicks for all the DIY electrical stuff or whether you want Joe Bloggs 
PL: Right, right okay what about erm do you think there are any issues of regulation or any legal issues around these, not beyond security (…) should,  is it something the government should be interested in, in any way?
?: Well I was, I was, yeah I think you know, I mean you can get all sorts of things on there, a friend of mine he gets all the er he codes all the cards around these different channels, foreign channels and erm even for Sky and the numbers come up I mean if they put a new encryption code, within a week it’s on the net
PL: Right
?: You can  actually get, he just punches in the code, puts it on the magnetic strip, pops it back into the er what’s it’s name up at the top
?: Mmm
?: And he sees Sky for the next three months free or four months or whatever and it takes two seconds to do and every time they do it you know, some guy or whoever just cracks it again and they go back again and er you know it’s getting to that stage where illegal services if you like are being you know sort of promoted as well as what is it, bomb making and buying rifles er the availability is there erm you know, it’s shocking (.)
?: Some of the counter argument to that is that if it’s available on the net, then it’s available on the telephone, or in the post or some other form, not as instantaneously accessible, and widely available to, potentially widely available   
?:   A pretty little picture of a Sherman Tank
?: Yes but I mean, part of well I think my opinion is that it’s not based in any particular country and it’s erm a network of computers and the fact that you’ve got the freedom is important to be maintained rather than being regulated and er I know that they’re looking at it in America but again there’s the issue of whether it can ever be regulated because it’s constantly moving and changing 
?: They can’t control their president so what chance have they got of controlling (…) [laughter] (3.0)
?: Yes
?: It’s how comfortable you are [coughs] you know with this people watching, you know the control that  people have then over what you’re doing, there’s somebody there who’s able to get a complete record of everything you’ve got logged into, looked at, whilst you accept that that probably goes on, it’s the more that you’re seeing this sort of detailed lists of your choices, your preferences if you like coming back at you, then the less likely I would be to actually use it ’cos I’m starting to feel uncomfortable 
?: Big Brother-ish
?: Yeah, yeah
?: But it’s happening all the time with your credit card now, I mean insurance companies before were picking out and ringing people if they knew that you know it was, it, stuff was coming out on your bill, they were you know they were ringing up and sort of touting for your business 
?: Sure
?: Yeah
?: And they can do that anyway, they all know what kind of services and they just send it out to these er data bank or whatever
?: People buy  lists of names and numbers, don’t they?
?: Yeah, yeah
?: All the time
PL: So I mean do you think there should be any regulation of that? (.)
?: I think there is, I think there is regulation  
?:   (…) Certainly covered in (…)
?: Yeah if you, if you sign something normally you’re signing a disclaimer to and you can tick a box to say you don’t want it passed on 
?: Which is the really sort of miniature one
?: Yeah the one you can’t see
?: Yeah
?: But I don’t think, I imagine there isn’t erm regulation on the Internet but I do imagine the big reputable companies will have to abide by a certain (.)code 
PL: Well they’re going to self-regulate you mean?
?: Well they I think if for example you found out that your high street bank was selling your name on to  whoever then that would quickly damage their reputation so I think that in itself would stop them from doing it (2.0)
?: I think that the service provider at BT had a box saying you know do you want us to send your name on so instantly you could say no you didn’t want that  to go any further and you don’t get a whole load of junk down loaded 
?: Why don’t they, why they don’t say ’we’ll send your name on if you tick this box but if you don’t we’ll leave it alone’ I don’t know
?: Oh yeah [laughter]
PL: Okay well  
?:   Because most people would tick it  because they’re used to ticking [laughter] (2.0)
PL: I don’t know what I said about questionnaires
[laughs] (1.0) okay erm any other (...) (3.0)
LM: No, I mean other than, I’d be quite interested to know which if any of the services we’ve looked at you might actually use or any other services you’ve heard about which you might use and if you wouldn’t use them who might?
?: I’d probably use the financial ones for sort of home insurance, car insurance, just out of interest if they would give you an immediate sort of, ’cos I mean I know you phone up and they’ll give you a quote almost instantaneously over the phone, I’m sure that must be possible on  
PL:  Yes, some of them do that
?: It wasn’t there was it? It wasn’t, it was a you know we’ll get back to you (…)
?: We’ll ring you back, that’s right but erm that would interest me and I think you bought your car on there so that would interest me as well, sort of looking through cars and certain things like that
PL: Mmm, mmm
?: Things that come boxed I think you know like, say if you,  if you were buying a brand new car you can go and have a look at it and you can look at the specification and do a lot of research, I’d buy  
?:   Without having to go to the garage and pick up the leaflet yeah
?: Yeah, yeah you’d want to go and test drive it first, but I mean records and tapes, financial services I’d buy maybe some, possibly some sort of er you know maybe a bike or something like that 
?: The flights thing looks  
?:  Flights
?: Interesting you know that’s something  
PL:   Right
?:Yeah, you need to check that side of it
?: (…) I think all of the time it’s got to be reputable companies I mean you just wouldn’t give your credit card number to somebody in Brazil that er you had no idea who they were you know, probably reputable companies
?: But a lot, a lot of it’s going to be gathering information that you require on the holidays, on the car, on the tapes or whatever you’re looking at 
PL: Right
?: And then nine times out of ten, once you’ve decided yeah, that’s what I want you’ll then get it when you’re passing the shop anyway rather than necessarily buying it at this point in time over the net 
PL: Right
LM: So then what’s the appeal (…)?
?: Saves you rather than having to walk in a shop and see, be faced with three hundred sort of different titles of books and albums and everything else if you know like Joni Mitchell we’ve got it down to what, eight or eleven sort of albums and then you can just click through each one and find it which one it was you actually wanted  
?:   The sample bit was good as well wasn’t it?
?: Rather than them not having it in stock anyway in the record shop you’ve got all the information to go in and say can I order this or have you got this? (.) So it cuts your time down in the shop
?: I agree with that ’cos it’s the same thing as with the flights I mean I can look you know and see what the flights are that are available but I’ll still book through my agent at the moment but I mean you know it’s one of those things really
?: But if your agent had the page on there then you’d check it out and then book it through him directly presumably?
?: Yeah, you could do yeah , if they had their own webs yeah 
?: Yeah
?: And you wouldn’t actually have to pay for it necessarily, you could be logging on under your company name and then it comes off the bill at the end of the month and you haven’t  
?:  True
?: Got that worry of the Barclay card number, but Barclay Square was it? And that’s just a range of different services that there  
?:   Yeah, yeah I think, I have logged on a long time ago
?: Right
?: Nothing exciting about it but erm apparently there’s different retailers, yeah (2.0)
PL: Yeah, that’s interesting isn’t it, Barclay er what’s going on here? Barclay Square they, they act as a site 
?: Yeah
PL: And then a whole range of different kinds of retailers are there Interflora and so on
?: Things like flowers (…)
?: (…) you like them with a range of different services supplied through that central application
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: Mmm (.)
?: But Barclay Coin sorry was something else that you mentioned?
?: I, I can’t    
?:   That’s a payment method 
?: Yeah
?: Right, but it’s  
?:   They say it’s a secure Internet payment pattern
?: Right
?: It implies it’s very small amounts, I can’t remember if it’s actually pound notes or just small denominations, there was something I was reading fairly recently, or I think it was last week which was quite interesting is that you can buy a lot of services, a lot of people um using Internet commercial services the only way that they’re actually making any money is by advertising and putting their slogan next to an interesting site that you might be looking at but one thing I was reading er last week was that you might be able to purchase erm say ten pounds worth of erm units on the Internet and when you go and see something or if you find something of interest you spend a very small proportion of that unit, like maybe fractions of a pence just to see something if you wanted to see for example somebody had a gallery and you wanted to look at a picture of Van Gogh er you might spend 2p out of your ten pounds having a look at that for example (.) that’s one way and ’cos it’s so global and ‘cos you might have access from round the world all these pennies add up to quite tidy sums for the companies who are doing it (2.0)
PL: When the net started it wasn’t commercial at all
?: No, it was American er Naval er sorry, American Army, it was a mean of er communicating with the, in the er event of a nuclear war (2.0)
PL: And then it went on to become a basically an academic network
?: A university tool, yeah 
PL: Yeah, so er, er and I mean the, it has this image the net of being a certain kind of space, a certain kind of place, do you think this is, this commercialisation of it is going to change that? Are we going to think more and more of the (…)  
?:   I think it’s already changing it erm certainly some of the searches that I’m doing although the, the, the web browsers that I’m using they’re constantly being updated and I don’t know if it’s as a result of those being changed but often now when I’m doing searches, and I’ve never fully understood the search engines but they will classify the types of erm data it’s providing back to you and it might say business and commercial and you’re finding that a lot of the time you’re doing the, a search you’re finding a lot more business and commercial information coming back to you rather than what you’re really after and, and then when you’re perhaps looking at it you’re really looking at somebody selling you something rather than somebody providing information to you, you know for example if you wanted a, one of the interesting things, my girlfriend was doing a tour of Germany and wanted to actually get a very good detailed map on the Internet of Germany um and you found dozens of bookshops that are actually selling you maps or specialist map sellers erm, you couldn’t actually find, what I was after maybe was a German tourist board map but you know, of the thousand sites that came back to you, you couldn’t find what you wanted and that’s more of a problem 
?: The German Tourist board is a lot quicker, you just get one (…)
?: [coughs] Phone them up, yeah, but the, I mean the other sort of thing that I was finding (.), the other sort of thing, what was it I was, sorry it’s gone out of my head, I was going to say something, it’ll come back in a second
PL: Well some of what you’ve been saying is that there’s a sort of novelty and interest of just sort of browsing the net and that that’s partly what, is that, is that right?
?: Yeah
?: Mmm
?: (…) Is really what I would use it for at this point in time is, is for information gathering and sort of (.)social aspects that would interest me (.) 
?: I mean a lot of people use it for the e-mail addresses now, I mean a lot of companies have er Internets, intranets set up in-house but if you wanted, like if I wanted to talk to you at University College I’d get your e-mail address and we (…), we can talk that way and the information is instead of providing documents or er letters or whatever, it’s passed a lot quicker and in this day and age people don’t want to wait I mean erm er they want the answers now or the information now, so I think it’ll be developed over the next couple of years more and more as a business tool but will then eventually spin off into people’s home life erm certainly I could never see my parents getting onto the Internet, my parents still struggle with using the video, but my children er are  
?:  They’ve been brought up with it
?: A five and seven year old and they’re very competent at playing you know with the lap top games etc etc and it’s just an extension of er moving into this kind of area and consumer demand will set up what comes on it (2.0)
PL: So eventually you just think, it’ll just spread in that sort of way over a period of time
?: I think you always look at how it’s getting on in the States, what tends to be er happening in the States tends to happen here. Years ago it used to be sort of like it’ll take four or five years to catch up here, now it’s down to about eighteen months or something like that and shrinking all the time (4.0)
PL: Okay, well any, any other points anyone wants to make (…)? That’s great thanks very much
?: thank you
?: thank you











Focus group 4, 3.3.98.
C1C2 Women


Participants		A,B,C,D,E,F,G

Comments		Variety of familiarity with computer technology:  B,C quite a lot,  some at work, E, G very little, F a little.

			Group bonded quite well - keen to talk to each other and to make 			decisions (about sites to look at, items to buy) as a group. 
	
Enjoyed Tesco site, but generally less keen on e-commerce than 	previous women’s group - lots of talk about the pleasures of 	shopping and the need to see and feel goods.


A: Umm could everybody introduce themselves, umm and maybe say a little bit about,  what if any use of computers you’ve had in the past,.. you know what you’ve heard about the Internet and if you’ve used it, and things like that
C: I’m M and I’m computer phobic 
A: [laughs]
A: (.) Right well (.) Okay
D: Hello I’m D, umm, I work in a bank so I do have umm usage of computers and I’m on sort of a computing course 
A: Oh right
D: and I have used the Internet but very limited, I’d like to get to know a bit more about it to be honest
A: Okay
E: I’m E, and I’ve used a computer I have my own computer at home, I’m not very good at it, I don’t know anything about the Internet… so yes, so it’d be quite interesting to learn a bit more about it
A: Right
H: I’m H, umm I use computers every day, umm things like Word for Windows, Lotus applications, do presentations and spread sheets but I’ve never used the Internet 
A: Right
F: My name’s F and I don’t even know how to turn one on (laughs)
A: Right
F: I’m absolutely amazed that (…)
? : [laughs]
F: I know it’s disgraceful but it’s very true
B: You can turn it on tonight
F: Thanks (laughs)
G: I’m G, I’ve used computers at work for about eighteen months and have recently bought one for home, I’ve never actually used the Internet although there is access to it at work, but I’ve never dared go near it (laughing) because I didn’t know how it works
A: Okay, so mainly at work most people have used computers  
E:   home mainly
A: Right, okay but not the Internet (.) Right okay, umm so what’s you’re feelings generally (about computers) I mean you say you’re computer phobic
C: umm  
A:  what’s your feeling about the Internet, and what, you know what’ve you heard?  
C: I should imagine that yeah the applications must be fantastic and I should think it’s limitless, you know the, what you can do with it, but umm umm, of course I tell myself you know I’m not really very interested, we have, do have a computer at home but I don’t use it 
A: Right
C: umm(.) ..I keep saying I’m too busy to do this sort of thing but really I’m sure that umm it’s something to do with age as well, you know the fact that kids can do it (laughs) particularly my kids can do it and I can’t, and I think “get on with it” you know, um so, but I’m sure it would be a really useful application, not sure about shopping by computer but…
A: Has anybody heard of Internet shopping?
?: (tog) C: I’ve heard of it
	I’ve used it
?: I’ve actually (…)
?: You have used it?
A:  Okay, one at a time 
?:  sorry
A: Lots of people
A: what sort of usage?
D: umm, well I’ve only used it a couple of times to order flowers 
A: Right
D: (.) the only thing I do find about the Internet, I find it quite slow the response time, um whether that’s something to do with our server, cause I use it at home, umm or whether it’s more to do with the telephone lines, cause I understand that’s quite important to have a good telephone line, a special  kind of phone line, umm so I find it a bit slow, but the actual umm ordering the flowers is marvellous
A: Right
D: It’s brilliant
A: Okay well what have other people heard (.) and where? What sort of 
(2.0)
?: No I haven’t
A: uh-huh
F: I, I’ve seen it on a TV programme, you know a sort of discussion about the (?) found that on the Internet, (…) order something through, but just as a little snippet in the television, so you know that it’s possible
A and ?: (tog) yeah
F: But I wouldn’t know how, not really [laughs]
A: Okay, hmm, so what, can I just ask actually before we actually have a look what sites, you know, you’ve heard of, or if you’ve heard of any ones you can just  
F:   it was to do with music this particular one, but that you know, that was, you know they were trying to get a particular album
A: Right
F: (…) surf the Internet
?: Mmm
A: Can you remember what it was you saw it on? 
F: Oh I can’t, it might come to me (laughs) if you let me think.
D: I’ve mainly called up Tesco’s and umm, Sainsbury’s 
A: Right
D: Specifically to order the flowers, that’s all I’ve done on the Internet really, and just fiddled around, but I just get a bit impatient with it because it is quite slow  
A: Yeah
D: But it is limitless what you can get out of it 
A: Okay  
D:  in fact it’s so massive, it’s confusing you know
A: Yeah (.) alright well let’s… go  
B:   Yeah, just hit a key
A: straight to the computer then in that case (.) and give, hit a key (.) right, now 
?: Do you wants us to er
A: Yeah, if we can get so everyone can see the screen (3.0) okay (9.0) is it connected? it’s not connected at the moment is it Pete?
B: We could look at the Tesco…
A: Yeah?
B: …thing. You don’t have to be on line
E: Have you got this on your screen then or something,  is this what it’ll look like?
?: That’s just a screen
A: This is  just a, picture  
D:   well you’ve got direct input then to Tesco’s  
?:  it’s a very nice picture (laughs)
D:  No, I’d get through by the server, through Virgin
A: Right (.) Well yeah, shall we just go to the Tesco, first maybe?(.)
B: Yeah
A: This is Tesco’s sort of home computer shopping service
C: Have they actually got this going now have they? A: For some areas, they’ve got, they’re sort of trying it out and gradually spreading out the areas they’re trying it, there’s quite a lot on sort of the outskirts of London.
C: Hmm
A: Right (1.5) okay, can I have a volunteer, somebody who hasn’t used it?
?: [laughs]
D: Well I haven’t used it but I mean, what have I got to do?
?: Sharon, Sharon, okay
D: Sharon can do it then
F: Oh alright, I’ll make myself look a plonker, I don’t mind
All: [laughs]
G: I just pop my cup here, alright what have I got to do then? I’ll just kneel on the floor (1.0) or something
A: Well first of all this mouse is a bit funny, but basically you (.) you put one hand there to use this to wobble that thing there  
F:   oh right,  gotcha
A: and (…) go on
F: (…) put my tissue in my pocket and get myself organised. Right, I’ve got to wobble this thing here, yeah
A: Right
F: And where am I looking for then?
A: Well, I think we should, actually if I just show you the shopping list I made, then we can maybe make a …you have this shopping list that you can add to, you basically point and click, and umm (.) see how you find adding to a shopping list, so I’ve put a load of things on already (3.0) Choose them from different parts of the (3.0) of the site, so if you decide what sort of things you might wanna make a shopping list (.) Imagine a weekly shop, or whatever stuff you need at the moment (.) Er, choose an area and we’ll go from there
Kay: what sort of a box of Cornflakes, something like that?
F: Yeah that’s a good idea lets do that then, where are we? We’re up there somewhere we need to get down here I presume, now what do I do? Where do I, do I have to touch it?  
A:   this is what you, that’s what you move around with and that’s what you kind of do to set it off  
F:   so you don’t actually have to put it on the grocery just the picture? Is that right? 
A: And then if you go to, if you move, if you move that to the
F: Um down there and click there
A: Yeah
F: Oh this is scary [laughs] ooh, I’m not enjoying this
All: [laughs]
F: I don’t think it did it, so should I do it again?
A: Yeah
C: Yeah, I would have thought so yeah, have you got the mouse? 
??: (background speech)
C: Have you got the list of what you want?
F: Oh, biscuits, biscuits, we’re looking for cereals, so we’re looking for “C”, cakes, cakes, cakes…catfood, catfood… ooh it’s not going to be under…yes it is,…course it is,…this is really scary…oh here we go 
?:  try specifics like Cornflakes
F: …cereals, so now, so now, do we want, how do we find
A: Well if you click down and see what there is, cereals, biscuits, children, cereal….Cornflakes has got its own little line (.) by the (…)
F: So now do we go to that?
A: Yeah
F: Right. And we have to actually touch at the beginning or what?
A: Yeah, yeah
F: Ooh my goodness
A: Not anywhere, anywhere in there.. yeah
F: Oh dear
A: Okay
F: Ooh Kellogg’s
?: Oh I say
F: Kellogg’s (laughs)
Kay: That’s a bit flash isn’t it?
F: So now I’ve got to go back over there have I?
A: uh-huh…choose the one you like
?: What size box are you going to have?
F: I’m gonna have..
C: Is this current prices? How often is it updated?
A: Um, I think it’s updated once a month (.) I mean they’re supermarket prices, but there’s a bit of a lag apparently  
F:   ooh, it’s gone blue now, what’s that, what’s going on
Kay: Cause that’s the one you’re choosing
?: That’s the one you’ve chosen
A: That’s great, you need to click on it once more
B: (background) You can set up a shopping list and then you can ask it to check the current prices
A: Can I do this double click? No…
(…)
A: Yeah, there 
F: Ooh very clever isn’t it? Right I’ve done the Cornflakes, who’s doing something else? I think I was very brave (laughs)
All: [laughs]
F: I think it’s somebody else’s turn
?: Go on have a go
?: Will it keep your shopping list so you can use the same one each week, just add new instructions, is that the idea?
A: Yeah, yeah
F: Oh really?
A: Well you should be able (to), we’ve been having a little bit of (…)
?: …stuff that you buy every week like bread and stuff
A: Yeah and sort of…
?: Are the prices dearer than in the shop then?
A: I don’t think so
?: Do they not add on for delivery or anything like that?
A: There’s a delivery charge  
?:   Yeah
A:   of five pounds I think at the moment 
F: And probably a minimum cost such as   
?:   cause Iceland are doing that as well aren’t they?
?: Mmm
F: Yeah and they have a minimum cost don’t they, but that’s by catalogue that’s not quite the same (is it)
?: How do you order from Iceland, do you ring it through? ?: Oh I thought you could just (…)
F: I think you um, you phone up and get a brochure, I mean this is hardly important, but you phone up and get a brochure and then you make a list of what you want, you phone them up, you tell them
A: Oh right
?: Oh right, so it’s not done by computer
?: Yeah
Kay: This is the future though isn’t it? This is how it’s all going to be done in future, so I’m told anyway [laughs]
F: So somebody who sits at the other end and does this there
?: So I read [laughs]
?: Right what am I gonna, I’m too busy talking
?: Is that way in the future?
A: Well it’s one of the possibilities I think it’s something they’re thinking of 
F: Now go, get some more shopping
E: I don’t want anymore
F: Come over here a bit…
?:  You might want something else, your kids might not like Cornflakes, you might want to get some Frosties or something
A: Lets see if we can…we could go for something completely different couldn’t you?
?:  I know they’re the same thing, but (…)
A: Well lets just check that we’ve got the Cornflakes added,…cereals, Cornflakes, yeah they’re on our list now
C: It’s one of the things you do automatically when you’re shopping is compare prices very quickly don’t you?...you scan them so easily,.. by physically being there.
?: hmm
?: Off license 
All: [laughs]
F: I’d quite like to have gone to the off license
All: [laughs]
E: Now, er, do I want to…let’s have a look umm lets go for fruit and veg
?: Yeah, how do they weigh the apples? 
E: That’s why I was going to
?: Yeah
E: …why I’m going to that
A: Let’s see I haven’t tried this out yet so ..
?: Yeah
E: Yeah, that’s why I..
A: Variable things… yeah how does that work out?
(pause)
E: So what do I want? Umm I’ll have.. oh.. why?.. I want bananas…. do I come down now…no…
?: Not going anywhere are you?
E: What am I supposed to be pressing? A: Move that to… to there
?: (…)
?: She wanted bananas though, so she wanted to go upwards
A: Oh right
E: But I don’t want to…
?: It’s fruit bananas
E: Oh right…there’s only one sort of banana then
(pause)
E: And then I press..
A:Uh-huh
E: Bananas loose, 49 pence
?: Per pound
A: Well lets see what happens if you click on that 
E: I don’t want one pound do I?
A: See what happens if you click on it, and you put it in the basket , cause I think that might be where we…
?: You must have just picked up a pound then
A: Ooh, four products, ooh (.) ooh
E: I don’t want…
?: You’ve got apricots as well
A: Right and they’re still not in the basket
F: Mind you they’re quite nice [laughs]
?: [laughs]
H: One product found in ‘fruit, bananas’
A: Right okay…if we look at the checklist, see if we can choose it there along with the…what was it under ‘fruit, bananas’? (3.0) Right, quantity…
E: Oh right
?: Oh, I see
A: So…
E: In grams and ounces, kilograms and pounds
?: Oh
?: Ah
A: So we can enter something in there…
?: But does it do it in pounds too, cause I…
?: Yeah
?: Because I can’t do..
?: Oh thank goodness for that, I can’t cope with kilograms
?: I can’t do the new stuff
E: So can I type in one kilo?
A: You can put in whatever you like (.) yep
E: By using the…
A: Yeah, if you just, you know, move the cursor to the bit of that you want
E: Right
A: So…
E: I want a kilo, no that’s not it
?: You have to click on the kilogram
A: Yeah, if you click it on, click it in the little bit, there you go so that’s given you ..
A: A price
?:	    That’s given a price as well
?: How do they actually weigh out one kilogram of bananas? Because it might be slightly more or slightly less, I suppose
?: Mmm
A: Yeah, I don’t know, I wouldn’t know what would show up
?: You can’t choose whether you want large or small ones either can you? I mean sometimes they’re whopping and sometimes…
?: Mmm
F: Well you can’t see if they’re nice either
?: [laughs]
?: And whether they’re too ripe, too ripe or not ripe enough
?: Yeah
B: That’s true
?: Excellent
A: Okay
F: Somebody else’s turn
B: How do you think they manage that, Tesco’s manage that at the other end? How do they get your shopping list…
F: How do I think? (pause) I would think it just, while you’re messing about with it here it comes through similar to a, not the same as a fax, but that sort of thing, it would just come up on their computers, so and so, so and so, with your name and address I presume it has on it
D: Would it go to the nearest geographical store to your address, or would it go to a central distribution point, cause it wouldn’t be cost effective would it really, to go centrally, it’d have to be done locally wouldn’t it?
F: Yeah
B: I think they’ve got a central service that receives the messages
D: Right
B: But then they send the message to your local store
D: Yeah
C: So the, because you’ve ordered through particular departments, does each department have a computer and they scurry off and get your bit, and it all comes together or what?
B: Well actually what Tesco’s do is they, they have shoppers, working in the store and it’s their job to get the lists  
?:   really?
B: They kind of go round and do your shopping for you
?: I wouldn’t mind doing that
?: That’d be good actually
?: I’m good at shopping [laughs]
?: Are they recruiting at the moment?
All: [laughs]
B: Ah, they’re expert shoppers
All: [laughs]
?: So am I [laughs]
All: (laughs)
?: Oh, that’s really good
B: They take it to a separate till and then they, it goes through the till and you get a (…)
A: Now I think one of the things about the bananas is quite a good example, because I think that, with Tesco’s you can give them different levels of authority, so I’m told, so you say you want small bananas or big bananas, you want them ripe, you want them green, and then you can decide whether if they haven’t got any green ones in stock, whether you’ll accept ripe ones, or whether you won’t. Now I haven’t figured out how we do this on this yet, but this is what I’m told you get…
F: Oh right
E: So it does cover every eventuality then really doesn’t it?
B: Well I’m not sure about that [laughs]
E: Well we’re saying it should do
B: Yes
D: Is this used throughout the world, I mean it’s obviously America’s usually the one you look at, I mean is home shopping like this a big thing somewhere like the States…so we’re not inventing it here? A: I think it’s bigger, well usually
E: They’re usually well ahead of us…
?: Yeah
E: On a bigger scale
A: Yeah
F: So if you went to bubble bath, and you had a specific fragrance of bubble bath that you like, has it got like, would it break down into different fragrances, or would it just tell you that they’ve got Tesco’s cream bath or something, would it tell you what kind?
A: Do you want to have a go?
C: I should think they must have every item on there
A: Well let’s see yeah
?: (…)
C: Do they put special offers on there?
B: If you know what your product is you can just type it in here
?: Right, okay
B: So if you know what you want…
F: Well, bubble bath, try Tesco’s cream bath or something I think that’s what it’s called, something like that, try that
?: (…)
All: [laughs]
F: That’s scary innit?
C: What happens if the thing crashes when you’re half way through you’re shopping list and you can’t remember what you’ve ordered? B: Er, it keeps a check of it, a rough check of it
E: Then what? Press (…)
A: Click on that
E: Ooh
A: [laughs] It’s a bit like a mouse
E: Click on that? A: Yeah
(background talking)
?: That says “cream bath” anyway it doesn’t say “cream”
C: “C. R. E .M .E” I think for umm
?: Yeah
B: You probably get a double one and single one
?: [laughs]
E: I haven’t even spelt it right
A: Did that work? 
?: Let’s change it to the correct (2.0) backspace, I can’t do that can I?
A: Ah, this mouse is a bit annoying
E: Well let’s clear that 
D: It’s a lot easier with a proper mouse isn’t it? A: Mmm
B: Yeah, you get used to this but it’s very…
E: You haven’t got space (2.5) That’s it, oh it could be..
D: C-R-E-M-E
E: There…
A: They should be able to recognise this I hope
?: Wow
?: Ooh
B: No
?: None at all?
A: Well let’s see what happens if we go the other way, do it the other way
F: Perhaps it’s called bubble bath
?: …it might be easier just to look it up on the section..
A: Yeah so what would it be
A and F (tog) : Health and beauty
A: Okay, I wonder if it’s under “B” for bubble bath (3.0)
?: Bath products (4.0)
A: Let’s go and see if I can find Tesco (2.0)
?: Mmm
?: There we are
?: Ah
?: Because it’s (…)
A: Oh there’s quite a lot of them 
?: Yeah
?: Mmm
?: Do they have all the different flavours?
?: Oh, yeah
G: Tiger Lilly, white heather
F: I lost myself there for a moment
All: [laughs]
C: That’s incredible
A: So yeah, it’s got Tiger Lilly and… something blossom
G:  Garden Herb - foam bath as against crème (2.0)
A: Myrtle and callendular 
C: I wonder how many items that particular thing has on all together, cause supermarkets carry thousands and thousands don’t they?
F: That’s what I wondered, I wondered if it…
?: It’d have exactly the same number
F: ...extensive ranges or like I say just a couple of different…
G: Wouldn’t it have all of them?
?: (…)
G: It must surely have everything
?: (…)
D: I suppose it depends on the size of the store
?: That’s true isn’t it 
F: It’s just like a stock list really isn’t it, I mean if you went into the supermarket and you were an orderer, a buyer, or whatever, you would have to have every line, wouldn’t you…every single one, so they must
D: But does every Tesco’s store carry every Tesco’s line though? I think it depends on the size of the store
C: Hmm, doesn’t it  yeah
G: So you must have your smallest number then to satisfy everybody… wouldn’t it because, I mean if you had a vast, the whole lot on but only a small local store then you wouldn’t be able to do all your shopping there would you? B: They actually…
?: Send it to a big…
B: …send you what’s in your local store (2.0) whichever your local store happens to be 
?: Oh right
D: Even cleverer
C: Because certainly Sainsburys, there’s two Sainsburys in L that sell different things don’t they? ?: Yes they do
B: That’s right
D: So it would know from your e-mail address then where you live?
B: No
D: …it would know what your local store is?
B: From your postal address
?: Cor, that’s clever isn’t it?
A: Yeah, you send off to get a CD package to sort of load all this on so, a send off thing you know where you live, and they can work out where is going to be the place that will deliver to you 
C: So how much is it to go on to the Internet? (3.0) Do you know?
D: We usually pay a monthly fee to whoever your server is, you usually have a server like you’ve got CompuServe there haven’t you? B: Yeah
D: Or there’s loads of them around now, it works out at about ten pounds a month
?: Is there initial set up costs as well? G: You usually get a free period, you usually get about three months, you can actually work it going through all the different companies to, but then again you have to change your e-mail address all the time so it’s a bit, well,yeah, not worth doing really
(pause)
F: That was all right over my head (laughs)
A: Why don’t we look at a different shopping site?
B: I think one thing to say about this is that we’re not actually on the internet, this program is just running on  so all this work is done off line
?: Yeah, yeah
B: And then you go on and look at some… services that are on line if you like
?: Let’s do that
?: Is it plugged into the phone?
(background talking)
?: Forty cases of Tesco’s crème bath
All: [laughs]
B: Yes if you hit the wrong button…
E: The bananas will all arrive here
?: …and 10 tonnes of bananas (Pause)
C: But if you’ve got this program if you did have this program at home and started mucking about with this, how does the store know whether you really want to order or not?…. they’re not going to start getting everything ready and then you say “I don’t really want it, I was just trying it out”?
A: ‘Cause you’ll sort of send a finished list to them rather than them be able to read it out to you
B: (…)
C: I see you just don’t get it unless…oh its fool proof then isn’t it?
?: Do you know how protection works as well? Protection of credit card details?
B: I’m not sure
?: Ah
B: Do you think that’s an issue? F: Yeah, it would be it was on that television program…
H: Did you see that Roger Cook thing?
?: …they said it was really dodgy
?: I don’t think it was the Cook thing 
?: Wasn’t it?…oh I saw the Cook report.. terrible
A: What did that say?
H: Catalogues.. oh I mean they get a receipt, its got your credit card number and they just have to read it over the phone and they can order stuff
A: Yeah
C: I know somebody had a meal in a restaurant off my credit card once
H: Really?
?: Yeah
H: Is that all just a meal?
?: [laughs]
?: No I’m not advocating stealing or anything
C: But I can only assume, you know that somebody, one of the workers had passed my number on
A: Oh you mean from like when you paid?
C: Yeah
?: Oh
C: But it was sort of months later and one came through, “we haven’t been to that restaurant for months” and its one out of town, so I knew I hadn’t been there
?: Oh so that’s something you need to think about as well if you…it definitely did on that tv program, it definitely suggested that it isn’t quite safe
G: They have some kind of protection, I know from Sainsburys, they call it, this is on a protected line  and they double check your I.D or something, umm, so you, I don’t know how technically it works and how safe that it is but they do say it’s protected, but how that’s…what that actually means I’ve no idea,… I suppose it gives you some comfort…then again, you could ring something through on the phone and they could still defraud you so I mean…it’s just one more way isn’t it?
?: Yeah
?: Umm
(pause)
A: Right, okay we’ll look up some..
F: Where are we going now then?
A: Well, choose, these are some places I’ve (1.0) looked at hmm, well okay, Waterstone’s book shop, this is a list I’ll show you now, Tesco again
F: We don’t want to go there we’ve done that
?: Yeah, been there done that
?: Thomas Cook, oh you can ring up and book your holiday
A: I’m not sure if you can book your holiday here
?: Not Marks and Spencer’s?
?: Could you have a look what’s available and things?
A: Yeah, I think you can…do (5.0) yeah I think you can…
?: Holidays, flights
(pause)
?: Must be able to buy your currency presumably then 
(pause)
?: Oh look, late deals
?: Late deals 
?: Ooh
A: Look there’s the…buy any of the products featured using the…so you can buy your holidays
?: Yeah
?: What late deals there are then? Because I haven’t booked mine yet
A: Who’s going to have another go?
F: Go on I had a go
C: It’s a bit difficult to get in there..
?: Well I’ll swap
?: Okay
F: Well I’ve had a go and I’m frightened to death…
C: So what do we do? A: You use this thing to move around
C: I thought we…are we not on late deals?
A: Use this to move….
C: Oh that’s where the thing is 
A: The cursor and point it where you want 
C: Yeah and then..
A: Use this one on the left to …yeah
C: Yeah?
(10.0)
F: You can go anywhere on there
(background talking)
C: So we want to look at holidays, don’t we
A: Ski deals,?  This I think is where you can maybe choose from a list
C: Anyway
?: Where do you want to go?
?: No not Florida.. where did I want to go? I wanted umm, Croatia actually but it’s not on there is it?
?: No is that…oh put anywhere then
?: Is that? A: Yeah these are late deals aren’t they? ?: Oh right
?: Oh right
?: So presumably…
C: Hold on, we don’t want ski deals do we? 
?: No
C: Oh anywhere, sorry at the bottom
A: Alright let’s try…
?: Where do you want to go ? C: Does it have to be in that bit in there, just on the word?…
?: You’ve done that ….are you doing that again?
C: Oh have we done this bit?
?: Is it limited to…
A: Well unless you want to choose somewhere…
E: Well lets go to Florida then, that’ll be easier won’t it? 
?: So…point at Florida
F: You’re actually doing it
C: Well no I’m not too scared
?: Any time?
?: Yeah
?: And any price
All: [laughs]
?: Is there a holiday to Florida for two hundred quid each in their somewhere? C: Oh why has it got anytime twice?
H: Well what time do you wanna go?
?: I’d prefer July
?: Well she’s put anytime
?: Alright
C: Umm, what’s happening now and why is it?
A: Well you just need to click on here to show your choice, it’s in your choices..
C: Yes, but I’ve done that twice
E: I’d prefer to go to July
A: So which…
G: You want to click on the down arrow, on the down arrow on the right
?: It’s too early for a late deal
E: Yeah right okay then, so we’ll stick to May
A: So yeah, if you point it at May and do that it should…yeah, okay
?: Right 
C: Don’t you care how much?
E: No…no I’ve got plenty of money…over five hundred it would have to be to have something decent
All: [laughs]
E: Nice when you’re not really spending this money
?: You now have to 
?: Click on…
?: Yeah that’s it
(pause)
?: Ah, this is yeah, this is what you go to 
E: [reading from screen] are there any credit card numbers or other information you would like to keep private it would be safer for you to cancel the submission… 
?: Basically it’s saying it’s not very secure
C: Shall we continue we don’t really care about that do we?
?: Is that what it says?
?: Yeah
?: Don’t give your credit card
A: Well we haven’t even given anything so…
C: Oh are we back to where we were? ?: No here we are
C: Right yeah, come on then, lets see what’s going 
E: Orlando, it’s Orlando I wanted,  um, I wanted a villa really, [reading] board type..
?: How do you know what the board type is then?
E: Right the villa’s have all gone, so I’m going to have to have a four.. Orlando 525…SC
?: So what does “1” stand for ?
?: Yeah, yeah how can, where’s the key?
?: Well that would be room
?: Yeah I don’t know where the er..
C: Room only.. self catering
?: Self catering
E: Oh we’ll go self catering…. For 21 nights, I keep wanting to pick up one of these things
?:Yeah
?: Wait a minute, umm
C: 21, fourth one down is it? ?: I want that one there, why is it.. Oh, do I want that… yeah? 
A: Yeah, but I’m not sure how you can choose..
?: No I don’t think you can
A: I wonder whether these are lit up, I don’t know if that’s just a link to London Gatwick 
H: It’s departing at, yeah, London Gatwick, umm Newcastle, Manchester
?: Right let’s have…
?: It’s saying here “ring” isn’t it 
?: Or how you buy
(pause)
?: No it doesn’t pick it up on there
?: Click on that one there
?: Oh right
H: I don’t think you’re supposed to click on anything I think that’s just telling you what there is 
E: I think you’re probably right… although it’s doing something 
?: Ah, okay, mmm…
(pause)
E: [reading] to see what’s available in your favourite destination, don’t forget to check out our late bargains…I think that’s all it does do, show you what is available
?: Yeah that’s it
E: And then there was a phone number up the top wasn’t there? ?: Yeah, it said ring..
H: So that doesn’t really tell you much, I mean about the accommodation or anything
F: No but it wouldn’t if it was a late deal, because if you went into a travel agent and booked a late deal it wouldn’t..
?: Yeah you don’t get much do you?
?: You don’t get much of a choice
?: Well you get quite a bit of information off teletext don’t you?
E: I don’t really want to go to Florida now
?: [laughs]
?: Enough, you come back here
A: Alright well shall we try a different site and see what…
F: What were you doing then?…actually coming out were you?
A: This was just clicking on the book mark at the bottom, and basically it’s like saving some of the sites that I’ve had a look at in sort of thinking about what we might want to talk about 
B: They’re like addresses
A: Yeah
B: On the net and if you point at one of them it goes to that site directly so you don’t have to put its address in
A: So, this is a big American book shop, that’s an American CD store
F: Yeah try that
A: Which one?
(background laughing)
?: CD
A: Alright, we’ll try that, actually we might be able to play some music from this one
?: Oh, have you got speakers?
A: Well its got a bit of a rubbish little speaker
B: (background) yeah they’re in the computer
A: See what happens
F: Well that’s what they did on the program, they actually had it, yeah this is the one, like the program that I watched with music
A: Oh right, oh well lets
F: So I don’t know if that’s…
?: Is that on? Or TV?
F: Whether you should believe in the hype or whether it really was, well what could happen
A: So lets look for something, that we might wanna find,  see how much it costs, see if we can
?: Let’s go for umm, er, let’s have the Backstreet Boys, I don’t know the name of the 
?: Just see if …if it might be out as a new album, see there’s anything on there that says Michael Jackson, can you see it? ?: So what do we do? Browse the music space? ?: …or an old artist
?: Artist
F: Yeah, look for an artist
?: Look for Thriller, or something like that
A: Oh no actually this is a kind of search isn’t it?
?: Look for Thriller see if it will come up
?: Thriller?
?: Yeah
B: Ah, but that’s not an artist
?: No you need to put
?: So we’re searching for…
?: Just put Michael Jackson
G: Just click on the arrow…if you click on the arrow and it’ll come up with an option list, should do
?: Would it? G: It’s all based on Windows isn’t it?
?: It’ll be easier just to type it in
(pause)
?: Oh look, you can go for song title
?: Oh so you can either type in the artist, the title, the record label or the sound track…so what do you want to put in Michael Jackson? 
F: I just think that we know Michael Jackson is easy, its an easy choice isn’t it? rather than trying to think of something obscure
A: Alright, okay, so…
F: An old album such as Thriller would be…something that we perhaps couldn’t get hold of very easily 
?: Do I have to click that now?
A: Yeah 
?:  And then you can type
(pause)
?: Does it need to have capital letters do you think?
C: I’d have thought so
(pause)
?: Find it?
A: Uh-huh
?: I’ve lost my arrow where’s it gone?
?: This is really peculiar using this
(15.0)
?: It’s looking
(20.0)
?: Right
?: What is it doing now
?: Import singles, imports and t-shirts
?: There you go, click on the albums
?: Rip-off
A: So you’re going to have to come up and scroll down, and see what we can
?: Yeah
?: Ooh
(pause)
G: Does it cost you anymore to look on say a foreign website, as it does for a British website?
B: (…)
?: What are you looking for? ?: I’ve forgot
?: It’s going to cost you eleven dollars eighty eight for the CD
(background speech)
?: What do we do? A: Click on here
?: What, on the little…
A: Yeah
?: Yeah? (pause) 
?: What does that tell you there?
A: That little sign, oh it’s gone…yeah lets see if we can… 
?: Ooh
?: Ooh, it shows us the car
A: If you do that again and go down it might have an option to listen to, choose some exerts (pause)
?: Carry on going down a bit
?: What does it say? ?: [reading] choose a song you want to hear
?: Where’s that gone? ?: Play it…real audio sound clips, click on that
(pause)
A: We should have a choice of…
?: Thriller
?: What do you want then, Thriller?
?: Yeah
(pause)
?: And then play it
B: I like Billy Jean
?: I do as well
?: I don’t think it’s on there
?: You should have been quick
(laughing)
?: Tough!
A: This is going to have to…let’s see (10.0) I don’t think the quality is going to be very good but it does work
(20.0) 
?: Ooh
?: well what does that mean…[reading] can’t contact the requested server
B: Okay
?: shame
F: Well, that’s a shame cause that was getting really exciting
?: Edge of our seats
All: [laughs]
(pause)
A: Well I managed to make it work on here the other day
B: Yeah it must be, the server must be down
(pause)
B: Have another go
A: I am
?: Could you pick something else, would that make a difference?
?: Try Billy Jean
?: Billy Jean’s not on there
A: Yeah it’s only given us a choice of five
(20.0)
A: That’s a bit of a let down…I was keen for that to work really
?: It’s trying to contact it
(5.0)
F: Yeah, you did say that it was slow didn’t you?
(5.0)
A: Specially at this time of night actually 
?: Why, are more people using it?
A: Umm, especially in America
?: Oh
A: Well it’s a bit of a let down
C: Aren’t there any record shops in England you could try? Perhaps it’d be better if you went to an English one
A: There is, I can think of an English one but I don’t think it has this for this sound thing
C: Oh does it not?
A: No
(pause)
F: Well we know it can do it, even if we can’t see it do it cause we you know, it’s all there isn’t it?
A: Alright well, maybe we can…
?: That was very interesting wasn’t it
A: Okay well, I’d be quite pleased just to have your general impressions and that then…
(5.0)
A: How user friendly you thought it was…
(5.0)
H: It’s a great idea if umm, it’s inconvenient to go out shopping, but then you miss the social interaction, surf the net, do your shopping and stay at home, doesn’t help much, most people like to go out and have a good shop, I mean I love clothes shopping, just walking around, it’s too easy isn’t it, it’s all a bit easy….do you know what I mean? But I like the idea it’s nice, and the picture quality is amazing, obviously sitting in an office all day, you just don’t see pictures like that on a computer…. I’m impressed
A: Yeah, so yeah, I mean, tell me what you think about it in relation to other normal shopping….why might you use, what sort of things might you use? G: I don’t think I would ever use it for as you say clothes shopping, I don’t think for me anyway, I don’t think it would ever replace going in there feeling the fabric and, cause I’ve been so disappointed so many times through catalogue shopping that I just don’t bother now. But I think, I like it for grocery shopping, it’s…I’m converted anyway.  I like the Sainsbury’s ones
(5.0)
?: It’s surprising how, with two kids…
?: [laughs] E: Yeah, I think I would er, probably quite like to use it for the grocery shopping, but again I wouldn’t use it for anything other than that, I’m very impressed with this, I didn’t realise it offered so much. The thing is that I don’t, I didn’t really understand what the internet was all about…to be quite honest… I didn’t realise you could do so much on there.
(5.0)
C: I must admit, that I…I’m not convinced. Um, I think I’m much happier to walk round, albeit quite quickly, but to actually scan the shelves, cause it’s amazing how much you can take in just by doing this, you know. I like to see the different products and different prices, and particularly for fresh produce and meat I like to have a good look…
F: You like to choose your own
C: Mmm yes, yeah, and um, I dare say it does have its applications, if someone is convalescing, for instance and perhaps they’re living by themselves, not everyone has got families who could help, um, certainly that would help, and probably for people who have to have carers in their homes, that might well be a good idea, but it depends on how much the whole set up is isn’t it? As to whether people who are in that situation could afford this sort of thing
A: Can you think of anyone else who (…)
C: Plenty of people I should think doctors, and er
?: Full time workers
C: People like that who are very busy
?: Where you’ve perhaps got two partners both working, maybe in the city or something like that, they don’t have time, well they don’t want to go to Sainsburys  after they’ve come back from work
?: Yeah
?: Commuting and things
F: So it gets down to being a convenience issue, whether it’s convenient to sit down at the computer than it is  to actually go and spend the time in the supermarket 
?: Cause I think
F: Cause while you’re doing that you could be sitting listening to your favourite music, or you know, whatever
G: I think it’s ideal, as you were saying, for people who you know you would say housebound, or whatever, but then you’ve got the added techno-barrier you know where, you’re probably dealing with older people say, in their sixties and seventies and I think that it would be a huge hurdle to get over, to get them to shop in this way, you know, because of the…
C: Mind you there are plenty of younger people with difficulties…
G: Oh yeah, yeah, but you think if you say housebound people you would generally think of  the older person
C: Hmm
(5.0)
F: I think if somebody lives alone, it’s a really bad idea, because I think that the social interaction of actually going shopping, I think that it sometimes the only time that you may have any contact at all with another human being, is when you’re shopping, that moment at the checkout, so that’s gone, the only person you see then is delivery drivers, you know
A: Can you think of any advantages over normal shopping?
(5.0)
G: I think if you don’t have access to a car it’s ideal isn’t it? Say if you’ve got a mum you’ve got children, who wants to do a monthly shop but doesn’t have a car, it’s a nightmare getting up to Sainsburys and Tesco’s 
?: Yeah that’s very true
G: And I can see it appealing to, you know, professionals who are computer literate to start with, who aren’t afraid of the technology
(10.0)
A: What about younger people, children at school do you think this is the future?
F: Yes definitely, the sooner the start playing with it the better really
?: Well they all do it at school
?: You know they do, but they…
C: They use computers in nursery schools, um, they’re quite well up on these things, I mean it wouldn’t take an 11 year old long, or even younger than that, to work out all this program
?: I think you’d have to be able to lock it really
?: Oh yes
All: [laughs]
?: If they had Toys R Us on the Internet…  “ I want this mum”!
B: It is actually on there
?: Oh dear
E: I think younger people will definitely use it very well
?: They’ll like grow up with it being normal
?: Yeah, whereas we’re afraid
F: Perhaps my mum, or my gran grew up with a local corner shop and a butcher, we’ve all grown up to be supermarket shoppers, and our children will grow up to be shoppers on the Internet…
C: Is that necessarily good though? ?: No
G: See I don’t think it is necessarily good that they’re playing with computers at three and four, I really don’t think they should have them
C: What about the interaction, you know, communication skills? 
?: Yeah
G: Well it’s more reading and writing skills, you know, I think they should learn how to write to be honest
C: Well yeah but it’s not interacting with people is it?
?: See I don’t necessarily agree with computers in schools very early
?: Hmm
E: I certainly don’t for the very little ones, I think once they’re able to read and write properly, then yes they can then use keyboard properly
?: As an extra
G: As long as they’re taught proper keyboard skills as well
C: But then what about kids with learning disabilities?
E: Well then they need, they do need this sort of thing
?: They need it C: Some of them can do this
E: No, but it’s a way of producing something on paper isn’t it?
?: Yes
E: Or producing…
E: I think we’re probably going off the subjects aren’t we really?
C: No I don’t think so, I think we’re talking about interaction, and this is to me, it looks as if it could be (…)
E: Yeah
?: I think we’re all jumping too far ahead of ourselves at the moment

(all laugh, pause while something technical happens!)

C: It would be nice to walk around Marks and Spencer’s on that though wouldn’t it?
B: That would be nice for you to view it
?: They haven’t been in Marks and Spencer’s?
?: Sorry?
?: They haven’t been in Marks and Spencer’s?
C: Um if you were doing Christmas shopping
F: I was thinking about the sort of thing that you hate doing for relatives
C: That’s why I chose Marks and Spencer’s
F: Going around looking for what can I buy them, it would be just as easy to trail around (…)
C: (…) to have their shopping list on her and could be automatically taken off
E: They do that don’t they at Mark’s.. that’s how they..
H: Do they do it on computers though?
E: Yeah
H: Do they?
F: So where you listed all those shops earlier, you could perhaps if you were (…), you could list all the shops that were your favourite, china, whichever, and they could pop to whichever shop they wanted to find what you wanted on the wedding list
?: Umm, umm
F: Yes it would be very good wouldn’t it?
A: So maybe some things would be (…) And you’re suggesting that certain times, like Christmas 
F: I love Christmas shopping… I absolutely love it
?: Sshopping for Christmas yeah
E: I get a buzz out of shopping for Christmas so I don’t think I would like that,… I like the hassle and the stress
F: So do I
A: So do any of you use other kinds of sort of, home shopping or anything, catalogues, or booking tickets over the phone
?: Yes, yeah
A: Or buying holidays
C: I’ve done it this week
A: Yeah? C: Yeah, only a very short break but um, it was through Sainsburys, what are they called, air miles. Yeah and it’s ever so easy, once you can get through to them…
?: Once you get through, yeah, God
C: Mind you that’s only done on the telephone, but obviously, you know, they scan up, they scan up and can tell you instantly what’s available and what isn’t, so that’s really speedy, you know and the tickets came this morning, and it was just a bit of plastic as far as I was concerned, saves quite a lot of hassle… so that’s a good idea
A: And what about different things,  mail order or…
?: I’m very disappointed with the clothes, same as I think you said
?: Mmm
?: You don’t get what you…see in the catalogue I don’t think, I don’t think the quality is as good 
F: Well we know that from the TV, like fish fingers, if you watch how they make an advert they’ve got their little pots of paint.. its all a trick of the light, the camera does lie,…so I mean I think really you need to, know what you want, know what you’re looking for …..your expectations haven’t got to be up here, you’ve got to be knowledgeable in the first place
C: Do you think that’s why mail order companies always let you send things back free, cause they they’re going to be a disappointment?
F: Possibly
C: And a lot of people are too lazy to send them back so they win anyway
?: Hmm
(5.0)
A: How do you feel about the sort of , thing we saw with Thomas Cook where you can look, search for sort of bargain flights? You can get information about…
?: I think that’s good
H: I’d still want to talk to somebody though, a bit of human interaction, it’s all very well looking it up by yourself but um I’d need the confirmation, just human talking, it’s good
?: Computers are so slow as well, its incredible sometimes
F: I think that holiday thing was,(1.0) lots of us look on Teletext I’m sure to see what’s available, now you could actually look there and be more specific I feel that you could be a lot more specific about what you wanted, I mean I know that we went for late deals, but I think if we went for something, a brochure or something, we’d have been much better off we could have said we wanted a quiet resort, or family beach presumably, you know, so I think that would probably be quite good because you could look into your actual expectations, instead of reading catalogues and brochures and bits and pieces, 
?: Yeah
?: Yeah
A: And could you imagine maybe using it in conjunction with going into a shop? 
?: Oh yeah
?: Yeah
?: Because even if you brought something up you’d still use a catalogue and read the bit of blurb, like “its 100 yards from the beach and things”
D: Well just the couple of times I’ve ordered flowers, I mean I just did it on the spur of the moment actually because, the background is my mum wasn’t feeling too well, and I thought oh, I’d send her some flowers so we thought this is a Sunday night and er pulled it up on the Internet and you actually get little pictures of the bouquet…
?: Oh really? D: …so you know exactly what they’re going to get, there’s about 10, 15 bouquets on there all different prices and its all postage and packaging included, so you know how much you’re going to pay, there’s no extras added on for delivery and all that and you actually see a little picture, and what she got was actually what was on the picture, I was amazed, and it just went through like clockwork
E: And that was through Sainsburys?
D: Mmm
?: Tesco’s do the same 
?: How long did it take to be able to get them?
D: Well I mean I, well one of them was for a birthday and I, you know, we had a couple of days to do it, one was the next day…impressive
A: Okay, um, one last thing really is about the future…
E: It’s here to stay isn’t it?
A: You all say this is the future, can I ask you just to imagine, sort of trying to describe what you think is going to happen, and maybe what difference it will make to ordinary shopping, you know some people have suggested, there won’t be shops just producers…
E: I think it’s a dreadful shame really, although this is excellent and …you know good technology, I think it’s a dreadful shame that it will come to just pressing buttons to do everything
A: Do you think that’ll happen though? ?: No
E: I don’t think it will totally happen, I don’t think the whole world will, but I’m not so sure, you know in the next sort of 20-30 years its going to take off, but er, I reckon, you know it will all be done by computer be done by…
H: Presumably, you’d never have to talk to another living soul or anything…
C: But more and more people, aren’t they, they’re having to work from home nowadays you know and I think it’s a bit frightening really that you know you’re isolated, stuck at home you miss the camaraderie of the people that you used to work with and er yeah,.. this thing is going to control your life, in all aspects, to me that’s frightening..
?: Yeah..
C: You know because I like talking, I like meeting people, and that is you know really important to me and I just cannot imagine how I could function or be happy with a machine 
G: I mean I think it would be an extra tool to use, but I don’t think it will ever replace going out to shop, so I think really it ought to be seen in that perspective really, I don’t think it’ll ever take the place of talking to people, I think it’ll be there and it will increase, but I don’t see it taking over, well I hope not, I think maybe I hope not, I hope that’s the case, but I also don’t think it will take over
C: Won’t it mean a lot of people out of work? Shop workers and all sorts..
?: The jobs  will change but they wouldn’t necessarily disappear would they?
?: Umm
(5.0)
?:  Does it ever break down, or crash or whatever, I mean at work sometimes we can’t do anything because nothing’s on the screen and no one can do anything, does that happen on the Internet?
A: Well it tends to happen I find, but its about computers rather than the Internet, sometimes like when we were trying to get in touch with er, to play the music, that was obviously the kind of, the site that kind of produces the software,  but usually it’s the computer that goes wrong 
?: Is it the computer at the other end or the computer at your end or the actual physical connection into it? 
(5.0)
A: So yes, I mean there’s some technology (…)
(5.0)
F: I think life’s too fast already and I think that if we think I need to go and get something, instead of it being like a morning’s amble round the shopping centre, you’ll just be messing about with that, I think really it sort of removes the pleasure, doesn’t it?
?: Hmm
F: I think it does, I mean it would be very nice, it’s excellent, I enjoyed the music bit and the holiday bit, but I really don’t know if it would change my life, but then I’m frightened of it anyway, so that’s probably why , its just to be (…) isn’t it? 
(5.0)
A: Okay well, anybody got any last sort of comments about it?
C: Why are you doing this work?
A: Well just really to try and understand what people’s responses are to this kind of thing… and try and sort of think about how life will change, with computers in the future, how it might change relationships in general…
C: Yes I mean how do you give your opinion, I mean when you go into Sainsbury’s you can say, well that was awful, you know, oh I don’t like this or this was good, you can actually comment and make your views known…
?: You mean like a comments wall?
C: Yes or even talking to the butcher for instance, you can say oh what’s good for this and what’s good for that and will you do this that and the other? And how do you use that and you can’t make comments to this can you?… Can you?
A: Well I mean, a lot of sites like this would have kind of feedback forms (…) They want your comments
G: I just think of myself going round Sainsbury’s, how many times do I ask somebody’s opinion? Or advice, never really 
F: Don’t you ever go to the veggies counter and say “oh that looks nice, how do I cook that?” don’t you ever do that?
G: Never
F: Cor I do, or you know, he might say to me “it’s very nice with a bit of herbs on it or whatever”
G: No I can’t honestly say I do that no
F: Oh, you’re missing out
C: I brought celeriac
G: I do it at the fish counter but only because I know the lady who runs it
All: [laughs]
C: Funnily enough I bought celeriac tonight and um, coming out of the till she said “what’s this” and I said “well it’s a cross between, you know.. whatever, celery tasting and sought of an aniseed taste, and “what do you do with it”, so I’m telling her what you do, I was actually buying it from her [laughs]
?: Well there you go then
(4.0)
B: We could talk maybe about shops you already know and whether they’re going to be on it …what about (…)
?: You can’t get into it other than being on the Internet
B: Right, I mean you can see that actually the CD place was not actually a real shop, but compared to say Tesco or Marks and Spencer’s the companies will just develop (…)
F: They’re sought of like a non-entity now aren’t they?
F: Personally I like to know that if I’ve got a complaint… I might not have to make a phone call, but I would want to go in and speak to the manager
H: They haven’t really got an image then
F: No that’s right
C: What about buying things like greetings cards, it would be quite easy for them to do something like that wouldn’t it, or videos themselves, you know just titles of videos, you press and then they deliver 
?: Depends on, sorry…
B: No, I was just going to say, a lot of the prices that you pay (…)
?: I was just going to say, it depends on cost, the bottom line is cost, if you can get a CD from you know, that CD shop that is a couple quid cheaper than going to Smith’s and buying it which one are you going to buy? ?: You’d have it wouldn’t you? ?: Exactly 
?: Especially if you’re buying something that’s already branded and you know what it is, like a CD, you know what you’re getting then obviously you’re going to go for it because its cheaper
?: Yeah
B: Right, so a grocery company could set up, it wouldn’t have to invest in all the stores and or costs of that it could just have a big warehouse…
H: No overhead or staff costs or anything 
?: Yeah
?: Or allowing for theft which a lot of um shopping is, there’s money on everything to cover shoplifting
C: Yes, no shop lifting 
F: Just go in there and ram raid…
All: [laughs]
B: or hit the delivery van!
All laugh
(5.0)
E: So we really we’ve just said we wouldn’t use them, if they didn’t exist as far as we were concerned, but now were saying that we would 
F: Well if they’re cheaper, yeah
?: Exactly
?: We’ve just contradicted what we had originally said
C: I know but if it was things that were, you know you knew what they were…
?: Yeah, yeah,
C: …I think that’s different isn’t it? You know…
H: I wouldn’t buy from some incredibly cheap place that you’d obviously never heard of and you don’t know any of their products
E: No, but if it said, Johnny Walkers whisky and its £3 cheaper than your normal Tesco’s…
H: Oh, yeah, yeah definitely
C: We wouldn’t have to go to France for the day, couldn’t we order it all from here?…at French prices please
A: That’s the thing about the CD thing of course, is that a lot of CD’s are much cheaper in the States
?: Mmm, that’s right
?: It’s seven or eight pounds for a CD
G: Well I mean that Thriller CD was only £12.99 or something like that , that works out at about what seven / eight pounds? ..
?: Yeah
G: …well you pay, what, you could end up paying double for that over here, 13 / 14 pounds for it 
B: There are some programs that will look, you can ask them to find something, like say a CD, and it will look everywhere in the world for the cheapest version (…)
G: But how do you settle, what currency do you settle in, and what’s the exchange rate?
B: Oh, you settle in dollars, with that company, it’s the company that does the searching that charges you , they’ll find it wherever it is (…)
A: (…) in the same way that you can use a visa card in France when you pay at the checkout in the supermarket
?: Yeah, you see a lot of this will alter won’t it? when the EMU comes in, you know the exchange rate and we all go over to the same currency as well, that will open up Europe
?: If we go in
?: Well we are going, I mean we’ve got no option
?: (…)
?: There won’t be that currency barrier then will there? 
?: (…)
(5.0)
A: Okay well, that’s been really useful, thank you very much for your time
?: Thank you
A: I’m really sorry that we couldn’t find Thriller!


Focus group 5,ABCI men - 3.3.98

L: (Could you talk about) the experience and background you’ve got in terms of using computers [pause], generally, not necessarily for the Internet or shopping 
A:  Generally [pause] Very little [laughs]. My name’s A and I work in an engineering company and I use ‘em as little as possible [laughs]
L: [laughs] Right
A: I don’t know much about them at all
L: Okay
A: Very little
K: K, I work at Cranfield University. I use a PC for word processing and spreadsheets. I am in charge of the payroll and use it for [a brand of software used for calculating payrolls?].  I kno::w ... give me the software and I can use it, when you start talking about hardware, RAMs - I haven’t got a clue
L: Okay
P: I’m P, I’m a machine operator and I know very little about computers [pause] (…) the young fellas [laughs]
L: [laughs]
P: That’s about it
D: My name’s D and I work for L Borough Council. I use a computer in work for word-processing, spreadsheets and a couple of other packages. My children have got a computer at home with all sorts of stuff on it. Um, I don’t have access to the Internet directly, um from my machine, but a colleague of mine does and I’ve played with that a couple of times but [pause] it frightens me to be honest with you, so much information  (…) 
L: Right
D: That phases me completely
L: Okay, well we’ll get you to have a go at it in a minute [laughs]
V: I’m V and I’m a civil servant and sort of home based, linked by computer to work. L: Right
V: Mostly I use my computer for writing reports, so word processing. Internet, yes, we’ve got it in the office which, you know, I can access it from home. But I haven’t actually used it yet. In fact I think we only went on board last week, so ... [laughs]
L: Ri::ght, you haven’t used it
V: So I’m a bit of  novice in everything but I haven’t actually learned how to use it yet.
L: Okay
R: Right I’m R and for my sins [ ] I’m a librarian, er, which means that we’re totally wired up at work [laughs]
L: Yes [laughs]
R: …for online automated searches, housekeeping systems. We have Internet within the library, and I’m now office based as well as community based which means that I work on a mobile laptop with e-mail and word processor and whatever, so...
L: Right
R: But my experience is limited in certain areas, mainly to do with this side of the Internet. I can get in and I can play around, but I can get lost
L:  Mmm. Okay, er well have you heard about Internet shopping or (…)?
R:  Mmm
L:  What have you heard about it?
R:  Seems even sadder than the real thing!
[all laugh]
A: And its very expensive, its very expensive - wire shopping
L: Right
D/K: I didn’t realise that, I thought it was just a question of being online (…)
A: I, like, well I watched a program; this is all I know about it, and I’m just saying that I think it’s expensive, this program. You can shop through the Internet, no problem, um it takes an awful long time for things to come through. Are we just talking about basic everyday sort of items - clothing, things like that?
L: Well whatever, whatever
A: Yeah, and you’ve got er, the delivery charge is a lot higher, things like that, and it’s not as efficient as other forms of shopping
R: The difficulty is with people - for example Tesco’s have websites - who have been experimenting in this area, and what they’re offering is a premium service, so you’re using a very highly personalised service from what’s available so you can actually go to the cashpoint that’s available and then you’ll be selected and delivered, you pick them. So there aren’t necessarily savings. On the other hand, if you’re someone that’s for example housebound, that’s a great advantage to you if you can’t actually get out, but at the moment it’s (…)
L: Mmm
D: Can I ask a question? What sort of format does home shopping come in? Is it presentation of goods or is it a catalogue on screen? Either, both, neither?
L: Anyone know? Anyone had a go?
A: Well I think it’s just a catalogue type thing on screen, isn’t it? The items are just shown up, from what I’ve seen on the TV about it
D: Not like (…) then? 
A: I don’t think you should believe all you see on the TV and I know but it’s just, items come up on the screen, and if you like it you order it
V: Isn’t there some sort of coding? That’s what I’ve seen. It’s all coded, you know if I want baked beans…
L: Right
V: …what is it, BL1 or something? [laughs]
[all laugh]
L: Well maybe we should look at it, you mentioned Tesco’s stuff, and that’s one of the ones we’re keen to have a look at
?: (…) wasn’t deliberate
L: No, okay, but er it’s one of the ones that’s been in the news isn’t it
?: Yes
L: Right, who’s going to have a go?
?: (…)
D: Gordon Bennett
[The group enter the Tesco’s home shopping pages on the Internet]
L: Is this how you imagined the site would be set up?
?: (…)
L: Yeah, a lot of icons. Come on, who’s going to have a go?
D: Me
L: Okay. Right, let’s start with Tesco’s. Do you want to (3.0) 
D: (…)
L: It’s this one
V: Double click
L: Yeah (3.0) Here we go
?: Tesco Direct
[looks at screen]
D: Oh, I see (5.0) Bakery, Deli, Health and Beauty, Grocery (…) Alright, let’s have a look at the wine list
L: Yeah
D: (…)
A: You can order what you like cause we’re not paying
[laughs]
L: [laughs] This is my account on there
V: Oh well [laughs] go on in there then. Get a malt!
?: Better pick the right one
V: Yeah
D: Right, how do I er (2.0) the off-license, I want to just have a look at…
L: Well you just, left, double click on that and then you (4.0) here we are right, and now you can move up and down with the
R:  No I don’t, no ..
L: Come here look, click on that and then move down the list [pause] there you go
D: Ah
L: Is this how you imagined it, that the site would be set up?
V: No, I didn’t
D: No, I imagined either a catalogue or people doing a presentation, like the American versions I’ve seen on odd occasions
V: Its very good, all nice and friendly
L: Yeah
D: What’s all this
L: In fact, we’re not on line at the moment ..
D: Oh right this is held on the hard drive
L: On the hard drive, yeah [pause]
D: It’s good choice
L: …so you can do all your searching and make up your list and make up your list and then
D: So what you can just pick one and (…)
L: Yeah, pick one, yeah and that’s (…)
V: Oh so you can do all that, and then send it by e-mail?
?: Mmm
L: Well it’s not actually an e-mail attachment, but you set up an online link
V: Oh I see::
[The group continue to browse in the site, L shows the group how to select an item and add it to the shopping basket]
D: Just a general telephone line is it, your ordinary domestic (…) 
?:  (…)
L: Yeah, go on
D: This thing, yeah? (…) And supposing you didn’t want that one there, what do you do then?
L: Er, double click on that (3.0) there we are, and then it gives you the size, the specific ones they’ve got
V: What, and the price as well?
L: Yeah, oh yeah [pause]. Well let’s pick one out, just choose any one really or (…)
D: (…)
L: Get the arrow on there
D: Okay
L: Now double click on that (3.0) er, did it go in? Yes, here we are, it’s put it in your shopping basket for you…
K: Does it keep a running total of how much you’ve spent as well, does it 
L:  Yeah
K: Or…
A: It’ll never take off [laughs]
L: (to Dave) Come up here… (to Andrew) Why not?
R: Not only would it, but it has in other areas
L: Yeah
R: We actually do library book purchase in exactly the same way, except that the list come on a CD ROM, and then we put that in a shopping basket and send it down the line
L: Right, right
R: So we have a virtual bookshop. And it actually gives you a synopsis, book cover selections, criticisms, the lot, which is all done by the supplier
V: Oh?
?: Gives you a full shopping list then eh?
L: That’s your shopping list and here’s your running total
D: Fifty-two…
L: No we’re not doing too badly at the moment, only fifty-two pounds
?: [laughs]
L: And then you can manipulate this list and delete and (…)
K: So if you change your mind you can delete something, yeah? L: Absolutely
D: Er, in this particular um store (1.0) site, is there more information on the goods if you want it? For instance, if you don’t happen to know that German white wines are all sweet and you want to find that out, can you find that out? (2.0) That’s the sort of question I’d want to know
L: Erm (…)
P: (…) (6.0)
L: I think basically the answer is no
D: Yeah, I think you’re probably right actually
LM: What about (…) online Pete? Would that (…)?
R: The problem that I have with this, specifically with soft goods, so fruit and vegetables
L: Okay
R: …where the all important thing is that you’re seeing and touching what you’ve got in front of you, and you know whether a lemon is ripe or not, and you’re actually dedicating that decision to a local member of staff, who is hardly likely to be a senior member of staff 
K: Yeah (…) or whatever, haven’t they?
R: …there’s that sort of quality risk
A: Yeah, like you just said where its already happening, where you can buy books or whatever in this way, that’s hard, you know, consumables isn’t it?
D: A book’s a book isn’t it?
A: A book’s a book
R: Well the other thing is by arrangement, we have an arrangement with the supplier, the one that we use for children’s books - Peter’s up in Birmingham - if the goods delivered are faulty, you can return them, but you can’t do that with soft goods - not very easily [laughs]
D: (…)
V: So Tesco actually employ someone to go around and pick, really
L: That’s the way they do it [pause] 
D: There’s a little box at the bottom that says ’Comments’ but it’s got none in brackets for everything I’ve tried so far. I wondered if perhaps that’s where you can get more information about the products
L: Well basically there’s no real product information on this, but we can as Liz was saying actually go to their website 
D: Oh right, yeah
L: Shall we do that?
A: This actually happens at Tesco’s now? This is available this service?
L: Yes, I use it myself
A: Really?
[pause]
LM: Certain parts, only certain parts are trying it, it started off in West London (…)
P: So it’s only certain stores
LM: Ye::ah. Basically certain stores can deliver it from one store to a surrounding area
?: Yeah
P: Is there one for this area?
L: I don’t know, I don’t think so
?: (…)
R: Certainly North Watford, with Sainsbury’s and Tesco’s are trying home deliveries, but it’s within a limited radius, but I think that that’s been an experiment in conjunction with social services [pause] for housebound people because the shops are now out of town centre [pause] so on major sites they can afford to have a site outside the town but all the people, pensioners and people with disabilities can’t get to them, so they’ll say that within a five to ten mile radius they will then deliver to the home, but, again, at a price. And at the moment social services are negotiating, certainly in the Watford area, with concessions for that, basically taking it back to basically my first job which was a delivery boy thirty years ago [laughs]
L: Yeah
R: Twenty years ago sorry
V: So um Tesco’s have got some central database somewhere in the country have they? (2.0)
LM: I think so, yeah
K: I should think so cause depending where you go there’s different prices, aren’t there? Different areas, you know
V: Well that’s what I’m thinking. But they must have a central database somewhere, where this information will go, and then they could go to send that information to the shop, to a local shop, you know?
L: Right
V: I’m trying to think , you know [laughs] how else can they (…)?
LM: No, I think that’s how they do it
V: Is that how they do it?
L: Yeah, they have a central…
V:  (…)
L: In Scotland actually
V: In Scotland?
L: Yeah
V: In Scotland? Really?
L: Yeah, and they’re um, from your postcode they can tell which is your local store, and then they instruct that local store
V: Ah::
R: But of course no one in Scotland can get it
L: (…) Okay, who’s going to try, um (2.0) what shall we try? (2.0) We’ve got various sites on here (3.0) Right, oh um, you were mentioning about books, there’s a site here for books, shall we have a look at that?
R: Mmm, can do
L: Have you seen this one? 
R: Most of them, depends on (…)
L: Here, have a go
R: (…) one I don’t know. Well, we, as I say, we tend to ... Rather than do the searching online, we get the information on CD-ROM, and we get monthly updates so it’s the equivalent of an approvals collections, because books, its always the latest publications that we want with the latest reviews, and it’s cheaper to do it that way. As CD-ROMS are actually very cheap pieces of plastic, so…
L: That’s true (1.5) But this is a site, an American site, where you can buy any book, (to group) yeah, come and have a look (2.0) You can search for books, er, um, it’s got a search engine over here. Anyone got any ideas?
?: Actually I’ve been looking for a book for the last couple of weeks
L: What is it?
?: I can’t remember, it’s, it’s a quiz book, but it’s a kiddie’s quiz book
L: Ah, um…
R: Let’s see what it says about ‘Armadillo’
L: Armadillo?
R: It’s the new William Boyd (3.0)
L: How do you spell Armadillo?
All: [laughter]
L: I am dyslexic actually, not the person to be doing this
D: A-R-M-A…
L: Arma…
R: D-I-L-L-O. It may not have come out in the States, if this is an American site (3.0)
L: Ah yes (looks at screen) This is a warning, a security warning…
?: Oh
(pause)
?: What does it say?
L: [reads from screen] ’Any information that you submit is insecure and could be observed by a third party while in transit’. If you’re submitting passwords for credit cards, or other information it might be safer to cancel this…
V:  Mmm
(8.0)
K: Also, is it the same price as talking to somebody in America? (2.0) Is it still like a local call or 
R: Yeah
K: It is, is it?
L: It’s the same…
R: That’s the advantage
(3.0)
L: Well there’s quite a lot of books, fifty-seven books with ’armadillo’ in it, different kinds of books
(7.0)
V: Well which Armadillo did you want?
[all laugh]
R: The author was William Boyd, it’s his new novel
L: It’s his new novel
V: Oh, right (3.0) 
R: Quite fascinating 
L: ‘Armadillo Charm’ (3.0)
R: Deals with narcolepsy amongst other things [laughs]
L: Oh no
V: Can’t you search it by author?
L: Yeah, yeah you can (4.0) But also this, you can look at reviews of books on this (to R) in the way you were talking about
R: Yeah 
[pause]
L: Er
D: I can see lots of advantages to shopping in this way, better than all that pressure and pollution and congestion in the shops isn’t it?
K: Better than going around the shops (…)
A: Yes (…) aggravation of going around the shops
V: Yeah, but it’s the feel…
?: Yeah, but (…)
V: It’s the feel, the feel, like I said…
?: Well it’s (…) as well
K: But you’re not seeing the competition are you?
V: Sorry?
K: I mean, if just say you went to buy a new telly, you go to Currys, you might even go to Dixons mightn’t you, you might go to John Lewis…
V: Mmm
?: Mmm
K: But you’d have to get them all up [on screen] wouldn’t you?
R: But ultimately though…
?: If you could
R: …they’ll all have web-sites
A: Yeah, they’ve all got one, haven’t they.
[pause]
V: Hmm
R: I had a colleague who recently, last year, moved house and she went through all of the web-sites to find out the best mortgage rates (3.0) It was a much more efficient way in half an hour than walking up and down the high street, particularly when you’re only getting the high-street banks but if you wanted the Portland for example (1.5) um better deals are very often with smaller local building societies - and you can shop around through their web-sites
L: Yes, yes here’s…
K: And you don’t have to go all the way into town as well, I mean you can just sit in your living room
V: Oh here we are
L: Here’s Legal and General’s site
V: Mortgages (1.5) uuhh:: (4.0) mmm
R: It takes the fun out of it mind you
V: Yes 
R: You can haggle a little bit in person
V: Yea::h, negotiating and haggling and the touch… its the human touch isn’t it?
L: What in Legal & General?
[all laugh] [pause]
V: Well its almost a human face isn’t it, or something? [laughs] (2.0)
L: So here you can um (1.5) anyone want to have a go? (3.0) Come on, your turn
V: Who me?
L: Ye:ah
V: What’ve I got to do?
L: I don’t know, find out about mortgages I suppose
V: Huh having sat in front of computers all day the last thing you want to do is er…
All: [laughs]
V: …you know, is come in here and er…
L: And play with this
V: And play with all this uh [8.0]
L: What do you think of the speed and the (…) 
V:  Well it’s very quick, it is (…) yes
R: [whispers] It isn’t at work [laughs]
V: No, well, it is a network   
R: We very often get thrown off, but that’s data lines
L: Mmm
R: That’s the problem, we haven’t got ISDN
V: (…)
(2.0)
R: No, it’s an embarrassment because we actually charge the public to use the system and we charge by the half-hour or hour…
L: Oh right 
R:  And if they get thrown off, or a lose a search, before they’ve printed off or downloaded, they’ve effectively wasted that time, so we have a lot of negotiating to do
(1.5)
V: Where’s the damn thing gone? 
L: I don’t know, where’s it gone?
V: (…)
L: Oh you’ve got a (…) (4.0)
?: Anybody looking to buy a house?
[laughs]
?: Not just at the moment
V: I can do you a good deal
K: What’s the best one you can give us?
V: Fixed variable, you know, five year, ten year plan…
K: Five years
V: Five year plan
?: Fixed
V: Fixed
?: Got a (…) as well
V: Ah ah (…)
?: (…) [laughs]
V: [laughs]
L: [laughs] No they won’t give you that
V: Let’s go to the (…) and see what’s in there then (2.0) Right flexible repayments (2.0) Oh (3.0) you can log in here. Do you need a password for that?
R: [laughs]
L: Mmm
V: What’s your password then?
[laughs]
L: Ah I don’t have one
[laughs]
(2.0)
V: Go on Peter give us your password [laughs]
(7.0)
V: Oh I see (1.5) So if I want some further information I can give my e-mail address and they can send me the information
L: Right, right
V: That’s excellent isn’t it
L: Mmm (2.0) So it’s not just for the actual online shopping 
V:  Absolutely so ah
L: What other sites have we got on here? Anyone (1.5) let’s look at um (2.0) on the bookmarks (3.0) oops
V: Mmm I wonder if I should send myself an e-mail 
[laughs]
L: Could do (2.0) Hmm (4.0) Ah right. And what about something like Loot? Have you seen this one?
?: Mmm
?: What’s that about?
R: It’s a London paper
V: It’s London’s free, free - is it free? no it’s not free - is it free as well? It’s a freebie isn’t it?
L: It’s free to advertise in
V: You (…)
L: You pay if you buy them
LM: It’s like Exchange and Mart
A: The whole paper’s in there is it?
V: Mmm
A: The whole paper of each week? (2.0)
L: Yeah here it is
V: It’s very very uh
L: So we can, anyone want to buy anything second hand? (1.5) I just bought a second-hand guitar let me check that out. I should have checked this out before I bought it [laughs]
?: (…)
V: For some um amazing reason some people who read it who (…) London don’t they
D: I don’t know
L: Let’s see what they’ve got actually. I’m a week too late now
V: Particularly if you are into accommodation. It’s very good on accommodation
L: Thanks
V: Yeah very good for accommodation
LM: Especially rented accommodation
V: Rented accommodation that’s right very very good
(8.0)
?: It’s fairly fast
L: What did I get?
?: Toys and games
(4.0)
L: Oops
A: By now I’d have gone through the index, found the section I wanted and looked down the column
[laughs]
D: This really is a question of…
?: So slow…
A: I could have gone down the newsagent and got it for 65p and come back and 
L:  Ah here we are (…)
D: But the cost of the petrol and all that,  I mean you can sit there and do that for the cost of a few pennies
A: Yeah but our line to this isn’t cheap is it?
D: I suppose not
K: Yeah, so if you spend half an hour, an hour looking at this its building up isn’t it?
R: With the monthly subscription to the Internet package
A: Yeah you can carried away and start playing away there, couldn’t you?
(all talk at once)
L: Yes and then there’s the costs of the (…)
R: It’s about, well it depends on who you go with
V: Mind you (…) six months trials won’t they?
L: A month I think
R: Well you can get some free with magazines but its not necessarily the most reliable 
?: (…) and just not realise it
V: [laughs] Yes I had one through the post the other day [laughs]
[pause] 
K: I mean I know at work they (…) very often do this for an hour or something and the company’s paying for it in a way (…) the cost
A: That’s right
R: I think the most important thing - we’re talking about home shopping today, but once you’ve actually got the Internet connection, you’ve got a whole world of information, and there are some very weird people involved in that obviously, but you can, it is literally your virtual library, so if you’re wanting legal information, you can go to The Consumers’ Association, you can go to various other organisations. If you’re wanting benefits and the like 
A:  I like the idea of what you said about disabled people and that you know who can’t get to the shops and things like that - that is, that is good. And perhaps looking up for mortgages - instead of traipsing round the streets
L: Mmm
K: The thing is if everyone uses this, people are going to stop meeting people aren’t they? You know, and seeing what goes on and everything. Everyone’s just going to be stuck in the house, not socialising or anything
A: And if the wife can’t get down and squeeze the veggies she’s going to commit suicide, if she can’t go shopping
[laughs]
K: Like trying on the dress, I mean you can’t do that here can you?
A: Well you wait, at the moment it can take weeks for something, an item to arrive and it’s no good and it’s got to go back and it’ll take weeks…
K: You’ve got to wait again then haven’t you yeah
A: Whereas you can just nip down 
L: But if you know what size your Levi’s are, and just want to order another pair
?: Yeah (…) the same cut [laughs]
R: And the other thing is that you can actually swear at this and not offend anybody, which I’ve found extremely useful (2.0)
D: You can’t get any reaction out of it though do you
R: Well, I know, that’s the whole point, I mean I don’t get banned from places [laughs]
[pause]
D: (…) look smug at them, hit it
A: Even when you use the phone nowadays, you get no answer, you get no decision made, you get no comeback, it’s frustrating. This sort of thing, for me would be frustrating as well. If I’ve got a complaint about something, if I want to buy something, I want to go get it there and then, not have to go back, I (…) have to send something back, and if I ’ve got a complaint about something I want to see someone, not talk to them on the end of the phone, or on a screen 
K:  “Can you show me how this works? Has it got a (…)” or something like that, you know
L: Right, right
K: You know, doesn’t tell you on there or whatever, you know. (1.5) You know, you want to talk about the guarantees or things like that, you know (2.0)
L: But for a lot of shopping you don’t ask questions like that do you? I mean like routine grocery shopping say
A: Oh no, it depends what you’re shopping for but I mean ..
D: Well, again, the comment I made about the wine; if you don’t happen to know from the name whether it’s a dry wine or a sweet wine, you can’t get the information
L: Mmm
A: Whereas in a supermarket you will go along there and look and it will tell you the categories (…)
D: The Internet won’t, well it might
A: I mean, you say you’ve used this already, yourself? You use it
L: I have used the Tesco one
A: You have used it, yeah.  Efficient? Fast? Efficient?
D: Long as you know what you’re ordering
A: Hefty delivery charge
L: No, it was free actually. Although I do believe that they’re cutting in a five pound charge
D: Is there a minimum, you’ve got to spend so much…
L: You can spend 20p but you have to pay five pounds delivery charge
[all laugh]
V: Delivery well that makes sense, doesn’t it
[pause]
A: You don’t get anything for nothing, do you? You’ve got to pay, which is, it’s all... they’re out to make money [pause] Full stop
L: But why, I mean 
A:  But like R said, I think for disabled people, things like that, I think it’s a very good idea - elderly people who can’t get out and about
K: Cause again, you’ve got to be in when they deliver, haven’t you?
(3.0)
L: Mmm
D: So do they (…)
A: But then again 
D:  (…) for single parents who can’t get out because they’ve got the kids at home.
K: Yeah, or (…)
A: .. elderly people or people who it’s good for can’t afford this sort of thing. So, that’s out of their reach, I mean they just can’t wait (…)
K: And you need a computer for a start, don’t you?  And there’s a loan involved
A: There are costs
?: (…)
R: But for example...
L: Well, a PC costs (3.0)
D: How much would you like to pay?
P: (…) that thing in front of us (…)
V: Well…
L: Oh this one?
?: It’s a laptop isn’t it
R: The point there is that I think something like twenty percent of the population now actually have a PC in their home and  it’s growing. The other thing is coming back to what we were saying, is for example, people with disabilities, you wouldn’t - because it’s my work, I work with the disadvantaged - but in actual fact PC’s for people with disabilities is a subsidised way of life. From, for example, children with learning disabilities, I know that they’re being given laptops if they cannot write or if  they have specific problems, to aid their education. So they’re growing up with them and they will have them. If you are disabled, there are a lot of charities that will provide you with a computer to do the work
?: Yeah 
R: And computers now are voice activated, for example, if you have a speech impediment as well, you can actually…
A: Yeah, I go along with that, it might give ‘em a, yeah, but the elderly, for instance, I mean, the housebound elderly, not actually disabled but for whatever reason live on their own or something so they can’t get to the shops. And on a government pension…
D: But then its not really aimed at people like that, is it?
A: Well, I thought it would be aimed for everybody, that’s the whole idea of this sort of thing isn’t it, is to open up the whole thing to everybody
D: Yes, but the advantage of shopping like this is for people that want to not be bothered with going to the shops, do it in a hurry - people that can’t leave the house because they’re (1.5) for whatever reason, people who aren’t (2.0) um able to go to the shops at the time the shops are open, working unsocial hours or whatever
A: But shops are open 24 hours a day nowadays 
D:  Well yes that’s quite true but 
A:  Yeah it might be, I mean, but me personally, I would, I tend to steer away from this sort of thing, I mean to do technology, alright, I’m not that silly that I couldn’t learn to use it, but I think you’re losing all the old values
D: Oh yes, its nice to go out - there are disadvantages
K: Yeah it’s being out with everybody else
A: …as far as I’m concerned, not for me
V: Yes I would have thought that in terms of old people and disabled and so forth, yes I can see the advantages but I don’t know, I agree (2.0) same…
A: If the government went (…) a disabled person’s house and an old person’s house, for all them that really needed it, wacked it in there free of charge, giving them use of it free of charge, yeah, I’d go out campaigning for it
R: Interestingly, that is almost what happened in France
A: Is it?
R: The French, I don’t know if it was telecommunications or what, but they subsidised the equivalent of  a cheap version of an Internet into every household in France
L: Minitel
R: Pardon? Minitel was it? Yeah. So they took that - I think it was several years ago now wasn’t it - uh in fact it’s almost obsolete I suspect in the way that it was originally thought out. The other thing is that, going back to the companies, what they’re doing is trying out as many ideas as possible to maximise profits…
A: Yeah
R: …and the demand has arisen - like before Christmas, 24-hour shopping which was also for the surrounding area for the lead up to Christmas. So if there’s money in it for them, they will do it and develop it. If it was going to cost them money they wouldn’t do it, so there’s obviously a demand and a future for the companies there - and that presumably is what we’re testing to see…
A: They see a need for, like the people you [to David] said, man and wife working
D: Yeah
A: So busy with work they can’t get to the shop, they forget the important things like eating - and can’t be bothered going to the shop, you know, that’s it, they’re focusing on them sort of people
D: Well, R said that 20% of households have got computers - the same kind of people who are orientated perhaps towards having a computer at home might also be orientated towards doing shopping in this way. ‘Let’s have some new technology in the house, we’ve got a PC and let’s use it’ - that sort of thing
L: And who do you think, currently, the users might be? How would you characterise 
V:  It’s more of the career-minded - I’m just talking about the, I’m talking about the ’career minded’, sorry to use the ’middle class’ analogy again, middle-class, um career-minded professionals with an understanding of IT who haven’t got the time, as you say, to go out and um, they are the ones who are going to use 
D: In the main, there are going to be other fringe groups
V: In the main, yes
D: There are going to be other fringe groups
V: Y’know, you don’t see your lone parent (or), I am sorry to say, the disabled or a little old lady trying to use this. But there is a cost involved, with a PC even if it’s given for free, but if somebody’s going to pay for the telephone line, pay for the modem and all sorts of things there is a cost involved.  We who use e-mails know how very expensive it can be, it’s not cheap [laughs]
R: But the converse of that is, going back to what I said earlier - my experience is with people with disability - you mustn’t equate people with disabilities with people who are without money
V: Ah, I agree
R: Because in actual fact they will exploit this technology to their advantage, and it will affect savings because everything that a person with a physical disability does is very much more expensive - if you want a car it’s got to be adapted, if you want to use public transport you will have to use a taxi or some other personalised surface because you can’t go down to the bus-stop or whatever - so there are inherent savings. And a lot of people with disabilities are running businesses from home with PCs - home working is a godsend for people with disabilities. Um, the other bracket in actual fact is not just the middle classes but people coming out of school on higher education now, are totally [].  And when it comes to University or college holidays for example, there’s a leading demand for us because if you’re up in Leicester University and you come back home again, you can actually use the Internet to login to your work and research at the university so you don’t have to bring everything home and you can work on things - its a different world
V: Yes I’m just thinking about the shopping element 
R:  Sorry, yes, but it’s become more pervasive
V: Well, absolutely
L: I mean it’s interesting that you were saying about the government maybe putting money into um computers for the disabled and so on
R: Tony has been talking to Mr Gates [laughs]
[laughs]
L: Is there a sense in which the shopping boom in the post-war period needed certain kinds of infrastructure like (…) motorways and so on, that was provided through government money? I mean, is there a case for that?
D: Stretching it a bit far I think
?: I take your point
V: If you’re thinking about getting money from this government then forget it
[disagreement]
V: [repeats point] Where’s the money coming from?
D: I think one of the reasons they might not do it is because it smacks very much to my mind of ’big brother’ and people aren’t going to stand for that, if they know about it. That opens a whole new can of worms doesn’t it? I’m saying no more tonight, that’s me finished
[laughs]
R: But if you actually get away from the thought to it being government funded, but actually being joint funded - in actual fact there is a commitment in certain government reports to post-millenium investment in the super-highway and that’s why he’s talking with Bill Gates, that’s why he’s talking with Telecom - because there will be a vested financial private interest in actually seeing that develop - so it’s going to happen [pause] just not fast enough 
D: If it’s open and fully open and can be demonstrated to be open and all that sort of thing, in other words there’s nobody getting at you subliminally all this sort of silly nonsense then I should think we’d have a lot of takers, a lot of takers - because I assume that the number, as [R] said, the number of computers in homes is going to go up - we’ll never get 100% saturation but I can see this taking off in a big way. Despite all the apparent disadvantages - loss of contact with other people, um having one highly developed digit on your hand and the rest of you gone atrophied, taking that to extremes a little bit here, uh, yeah (3.0)
A: You’d have shops that aren’t on the Internet that go bust, wouldn’t you? And also you’d have the town centres would become nothing wouldn’t they - the big shops would just become big warehouses because no-one’s going to  them - if it got that big that’s what I’m saying
V: (…) [laughs]
D: Until such time as you come across and you can’t get hold of and feel what it feels like and you can’t check, the exact feel of the material, and you can’t tell whether its a sweet wine of a dry wine - those things are never going to be replaced by technology like that I don’t think - I mean, I can’t envisage how you can put in the kind of tactile feedback you need to find out what a piece of material feels like on a shirt or what have you through a computer screen [laughs] But I’m going to regret saying that in five years time aren’t I?
[laughs]
V: Home shopping is apparently very popular isn’t it in America from what we hear. Used extensively, again by a certain segment of the population and I don’t know how many - ten, fifteen percent, one is not quite sure. Um I’m not sure whether your research has extended into that, um how far has it been affected in America? Do you know? (4.0)
L: Liz?
[laughs]
V: Well I mean (…)
LM: Well I mean I think more so than here, um and partly its about distance, partly it’s about, you know, what (…)
D: That’s right, I think its probably in America where this, the paper version of this started off - a series of catalogues (sent to the home) and this is the (…) isn’t it really?
L: I think Wedgewood was the first catalogue actually
D: Wedgewood?
L: Mmm, historically (2.0) sorry
[laughs]
D: Oh no, feel free. But I, taking all the other factors, distance and that sort of thing, that was the way to shop in America
R: But the joke is that it actually shrinks distance, and one of the things that we’ve found since we’ve set up a website is that we’re getting international enquiries that we’ve never had before, which is a real pain because we’re not equipped to respond to them, and there are people attacking our website at two o’clock in the morning in the States, and we’re getting these enquiries and we have no means of delivering, which is a real problem. So the expectations are growing. Um, I mean in our instance it’s a lot of people doing family history research and wanting to get into the archives locally because the family’s emigrated two, three, four, five generations ago and they’re wanting that sort of information and we’re the sort of source. So we are actively now undertaking a project to transfer the local studies archives at County Hall into some form of virtual reality
L: Aren’t there parallels in shopping as well? 
R:  Yes
L: I mean in the sense that you can get specialist producers 
R: Mmm
L: I mean we were talking about shirts, maybe there’s a very fine shirt maker in North America who’s (…) 
R: Also there’s…
L: We can now 
R: It also means that we can make documents available that you couldn’t have people handling [pause] because of their age, historically, they would be too delicate to actually present them but we only actually need to record them once and they’re available in perpetuity
L: Mmm it’s 
V: Again I, sorry
L: Sorry, I, I was just thinking this, the objection that you, a number of you have raised about the ’squeeze and touch’ issue, er what if they managed that more or less - I know it seems impossible - but as they get experience they could provide a service, they get to know, after a little while?
K: Well you get that, not the soft goods, but I think Littlewoods, Grattan’s, and people like that you can order it; dress, shoes, suit, try it on and if you don’t like it you send it back and it doesn’t cost you anything to send back does it?
L: That’ s right
K: So, if it worked that way, it’s just like (…)
A: But it does cost you doesn’t it cause the prices are higher there to start with than they are on the street anyway (2.0) You’re not getting anything for nothing again are you? You’ll pay on delivery one way or another, and you’re paying for that to be returned one way or another
K: Yeah, it’s got to be somewhere in the price hasn’t it…
A: Yeah, yeah
K: …somewhere down the line doesn’t it, but I’m saying you know...
R: But you haven’t bashed off to Watford, to Peterborough, to Northhampton whatever to check all the big stores
K: Yeah I mean if you go down to L and buy a suit and you get home and you decide it’s not good you’ve got to get on the bus or drive all the way back down there and it’s costing money again isn’t it?
A: Yeah true, true
K: Whereas the catalogues deliver and they take them away and in theory you’re not paying out any more money
(2.0)
V: I mean we use the system of catalogues (…) but it’s always the tangible things - the trousers, pair of shoes, telly - it’s tangible, it’s fine…
K: It’s not fruit or a tin of beans or something like that
V: Yeah, but I mean what matters is the feely-touchy bit, the squeezy bit, you know the fruits and the vegetables that’s what I’m saying, more along those lines. I mean how on earth, unless it’s like Virtual Reality [laughs] I mean how on earth can Tesco’s be able to make me touch, you know [laughs]
L: Mmm
V: [laughs]
A: (…) hundreds of years (time) aren’t we?
K: I mean Iceland do that, don’t they? But again it’s all frozen stuff
L: Yeah
V: Hmm
K: (…) Tesco (…) it’s perishable isn’t it
R: I’m talking here as if (…) but actually I just work with the damn stuff and I have to speak it cause I have to sell it to the customers, but the next step on in actual fact is the equivalent of video conferencing so you can almost get there, but that’s already there now
K: Yeah it’s going to get to the stage when you don’t even need to go out your house to do anything
R: (…)
?: (…) alright doesn’t it?
[laughs]
?: I mean, you’ve talked me into it now!
[all laugh] [pause]
V: Some of us do, that is an option
D: I think that perhaps one of the problems is that um (3.5) we all have our traditional ideas about how things are done, don’t we, and it’s (1.5) we wouldn’t be human if we instantly took to every change, um, there’s the sort of in-built resistance to anything new and different. But I mean once you get (2.0) I have a vivid memory in my mind of the first time I was presented with a computer at work, and it wasn’t all that long ago, um I was scared to death of it but once you get to grips with it it’s fine and your interest grows quite quickly, and your comptence grows quite quickly. I suspect this would be exactly the same - no difference. Once you get to grips with it…
A: Well you can go too far can’t you, it’s getting to a point where you’re getting really silly (2.5) You know they’re going to come up with these ideas that just are…
D: Yes but you don’t have to do it do you?
A: Oh no, no, that’s right
D: It’s really up to 
A:  there is a choice, yeah, there is a choice
D: At the moment
K: Yeah but if everyone went that way…
D: Could this take over?
[]
K: Your whole life’s going to revolve around a little (…)
A: I hope not, I hope not
R: There’s an area where it is happening and that’s in financial services
L: Mmm
R: (2.0) And the High Street banks are reducing and reducing and the pressure is for you to have phone accounts, or computer accounts. 
A: Yeah that’s (…)
R: The problem, the problem is the security (2.0)
A: Yeah
R: And once you’ve built a secure system there’s somebody out there who’s going to break it 
D: Mmm
A: Yeah
R: Like the Pentagon last week, again [laughs]
A: There again I like to go down to the cashier at the, at the bank
V: A pretty face, yeah? [laughs]
[laughs]
A: No, you see your money going in don’t you? You see your money coming out
D: But you don’t need 
A:  I mean personally I don’t use credit cards, debit cards anything like that, never ever
D: You don’t?
A: Nothing, ever, no I go down the supermarket and 
V: How do you survive [laughs]
A: Really well. I, if I go round the supermarket and there’s a line of people in front of me with check cards ,I’m just going (1.0) crazy, doolally (1.5) I don’t never use them. Cash, on the hip…
LM: (…)
A: There you go (…)
L: For the majority of people this stuff, the preparation for this, is in place already - electronic transfer of their salaries 
?: Mmm
?: Yeah
A: Frightening isn’t it?
L: And they never see their money, you know, they never touch or smell or feel…
A: No
D: [laughs]
A: I couldn’t handle that
R: You can try and enforce it like that but it doesn’t work
V: I mean you know, you’re quite right, I 
A: I read a survey in the paper the other week that said that something like (…) percent of card users don’t know what they’re being charged (2.0)
L: Yes but it’s 
D: Yes, I read that
A: It was something like that, wasn’t it? So all they look at is if there’s a, the annual, like there’s a fee for using that card, like twelve pounds a year or something like that. That’s all they look for but, you know interest and all that, they don’t know what they’re being charged
L: But it’s a service isn’t it? I mean the point is 
V:  certainly it’s the convenience
L: Right. I mean in a sense you’re talking about some of the costs and so on, some of them will come down, but people are prepared to pay for a service
K: But you are becoming reliant on a little box aren’t? I mean, if you have a power cut for a couple of days (…) or if your computer packs up you’re going to be suicidal, some people aren’t they? I know that’s only a touch on the outside world ...
V: [laughs]
L: Well I mean cars break down don’t they?
K: Yeah but if they do all their ordering and everything (…)
V: But you could be run over tomorrow by a lorry and die! [laughs]
R: I think the difference is that with someone like Tesco’s or Sainsbury’s or Asda, there’s still going to be the choice (1.5) although the choice isn’t always going to be conveniently located, but they’ve still got to have local distribution and that’s still going to be their cost-effectiveness at the end of the day. They’re not going to be a able to have a centralised (stock) sending your (…) from Scotland, it’s still got to be regionally based, but already its out-of-town, um
L: Well it’s store based at the moment for the distribution but that presumably in time ...
R: Well that can be (…)
D: They already have distribution centres don’t they?
V: Yeah
D: And they just do away with the shops
V: Mmm
L: And then the cost ration, the cost scenario changes doesn’t it? 
V: Yes
D: Yeah
L: Because at the moment you’ve got an additional service on the additional costs of the development of the (2.0) stores, but once that goes...
?: Mmm
V: And if you’ve got someone in the shop actually picking the vegetables out, somebody somewhere is paying for that person
L: Yeah, yeah
V: Um, (2.0) so yes. I think the interesting thing is that if the costs do come down, and make it accessible to everyone, um, I can imagine the government (…) it’s going to be very difficult. I like the idea about costs, you know, one thing about computersis that there is a cost factor. You have a computer now, and next year it’s obsolete. You know, you want to be constantly keeping updating it all the time, which as you said, it’s a very expensive business. But we always think about the initial costs, you know £2000 for this laptop and next year you want to update it. (…) computers. I mean the last five or seven years I’ve had about 4 or 5 different computers
L: Mmm
V: Well I don’t buy them [laughs] but somebody somewhere is paying for it, um, so there is that cost element as well isn’t there that needs to be looked at
R: The thing is that it won’t be the government that, the government will probably organise it or contract it, but if it’s crafty it will be in the interests of commerce to actually fund it 
D: Yeah
R: If they’re going to make money out of it they will have to pay for it
D: Yeah that’s the way it will go, and that’s, that’s as it should be
V: Yeah
D: Because essentially you’ve got a virtual shop, and in this case a virtually shopping mall...
K: So it’s a cheap investment for them
D: Exactly
R: Or if you look at the way the country has been dug up over the last five years with the installation of cable...
[Tape is turned over]
A: (…) cable? ?: Yeah
V: It’s not cheap
[laughs]
L: Now what about that point with the cable, because there’s an interesting thing, we’ve got the fibre-optic cable through the streets and they’ve stuck a telephone line on that into people’s homes
K: Except for this street
L: Oh have you got (…)
K: No they haven’t put cable down here
L: Oh there’s no cable here?
K: It’s only (…) they’re doing in in June 1999
[laughs]
L: But what, what about that? I mean, if they put fibre-optic links into homes, we wouldn’t need modems and we could have…
K: Straight in couldn’t we
V: Absolutely
L: …gone digital straightaway, we could, I mean, we’ve got the information coming down as serial (…) I mean the limitations on the presentation
K: (…) five years time to dig it all up again won’t they?
[laughs]
?: Mmm
D: Very inefficient (…) There’s far more capacity from fibre optics...
V: More information
D: (…) copper pair, isn’t there?
L: Yeah
D: That’s very old hat (2.0) um
L: I mean do you think that’s a, I mean, is there a role for government there possibly? I mean, that…
D: Pah…
L: There is a commercial value in the cable companies, cable companies cause the services weren’t available yet domestically, looking to the future... 
D:  Oh yes it was (…) wasn’t it? But it was a commercial environment, commercial pressure, commercial organisations (…) and there’s very little, all government did was put in place enabling legislation, so (2.0) and that again is how it should be (2.0)
L: Why do you say that? I mean, um, as I was saying about 
D:  Because I’m a local government employee [laughs] Because of this thing about big brother - you have to have open communications (3.0) That’s primary (2.0) You can make it as private as you like (2.0) they can’t, they shouldn’t  make it secretive and that sort of thing (…) none of that George Orwell stuff around here
L: But industry’s not going to fund that kind of thing, I mean the cable example I gave was an example of something. It was an example of an industry investing according to its own assessments of what’s going to be profitable
D: Right
L: And clearly that in looking to the future, that was most unfortunate.  We could have this wonderful fibre-optic network and its all non-digital (…) It’s extraordinary…
P: But with the ducts and that being laid it can be switched over at a cheaper cost. The ducts are in the ground, so its more digging up , just a matter of pulling up one cable and shoving another in (2.0) the hard work is done (…)
L: (…) household that wants it (…)
P: You can change it, yeah, without digging up the pavements and streets again
V: Are you sure about that? [laughs]
L: I mean do you think that’s a limitation here of this technology, the presentation and so on (2.0) We were talking about a virtual shop, but it’s not a virtual environment is it?
?: Yeah
V: Mmm
R: But the examples that you’ve seen so far are very very limited in comparison to what is actually available
L: Mmm
R: The best examples I can think of at a simplistic level are um, take something like a very basic (…) CD-ROM with virtual reality and the art-galleries and things like that. It is now possible for the company that funds our library automated system in Holland where they’ve got much more money will do you an entire guide to the entire stock of the library in Rotterdam and it’s all in virtual reality and you can walk through the library and look at the books... It’s absolutely incredible
K: (…) go that way eventually, the technology
R: The technology is already there
V: Yeah, yeah
A: With some of them you get an image don’t you, you get a sales girl showing you something, an item to be sold and things like that. You know, virtual
L: Mmm
R: Could change the image of librarians forever [laughs]
L: I suppose there is a lot of (…)
V: I’ll have to go and work in a library now R, you’ve really got me going [laughs]
D: You could extrapolate even further, you could say that instead of watching a screen you could have a projection couldn’t you so that its almost real - yes, thank you, a holographic projection. That’s one of the biggest drawbacks, that’s one of the limitations of this type of technology because you’ve got to sit and watch a screen - get square eyes - much nicer if you could literally walk through the shops without going out you’re front door 
L: But look at early motor cars and early washing machines and so on, I mean this is the stone age of the…
D: Yeah (…) where it is now. A couple of years and we’ll be there won’t we
K: Well it’s quite user friendly as it is now isn’t it? Know what I mean, whoever’s frightened of using it (shouldn’t) find it frightening once you know how to use it
V: Digital now, I mean sooner or later we’re going to have digital television (2.0) I don’t think we’re far away are we?
R: Fifteen years, they’ve said
V: Oh no, I’m sure it’s going to be... No
R: They’ve had to phase it in, there was a statement by the government last month
L: Fifteen?
V: Fifteen?
R: Fifteen, before the complete, not before it’s actually available, but before it is the only choice available
V: Oh, right. But again, we’re talking about home shopping, and home shopping now as something on cable television, and I know quite a few people are hooked on it and they use it quite ... we’re talking about credit cards. You just ring - ’Yes, £100’ - you just give you’re credit card and a week late its there. So particularly in the digital age, people are more likely to be using that than this because there isn’t any additional costs whatsoever, um the only costs are to pick the phone up and order for what you want. Whereas with this, whether we like it or not there is a primary (...) somebody somebody somewhere (...) got to buy (…) you know with the attendant modems, charges, CD ROMS, God knows what else, the hardware. So I can see the television home shopping being far more, and if Tesco’s and so forth got any sense I am sure they will going to be linking in there as well, so (2.0) that’s where I see it going
L: Mmm
D: What about having the computer built into the television
V: Yes, oh yes, digital - that’s what’s going to happen
D: You’ve got it all haven’t you then
V: You can link in, you can link in, oh yes. Multimedia, multi-shopping, multi this, and that - it’s all there isn’t it? If you want a lady just bring the money, you know [laughs] Full Monty, yeah, you know, you can see it (…)
L: Yeah, okay
D: Flights of fancy here
L: Well, yeah, but…
D: Yeah but that’s the sort of thing this sort of technology encourages really isn’t it? You’re only limited by the extent of your imagination (…) said that
L: I think Bill Gates said that, didn’t he?
LM: [laughs]
D: (…)
L: Now what er, now mainly you’ve talked about services that we already know about, like going online, but do you think they’ll be any other sorts of changes - will new sorts of services, new products develop 
D: Certainly, I think is the answer to that question (2.0) um don’t ask me to try and guess what, but I mean (2.0) one of the dangers I think is that new things will come along, old things will go, but one of the dangers is that more of the old things will go than there are new things to replace them. In other words, choice will become limited possibly (4.0) for no good reason that I can think of but it’s certainly a scenario that I can see happening.  On the other hand of course, it could be that the choice will become limitless, I suppose that’s a far more likely scenario, um, and then literally anything you want at the push of a button, basically (2.0) well if you can afford it
A: Even if you can’t afford it you’re going to get it with your credit cards
D: Well yeah [laughs]
R: That begs a very interesting question actually because if you’re talking about the post-IT society, whatever that may be (1.5)  what is happening and probably most of us are in a position whereby this is actually costing us our jobs (3.0) all of us have been put in a position of threat which means that fundamentally you’ve got to have a sustainable economy to pay for it (2.0) Now, what is happening already is that you’re having a great rift in society between haves and have nots and more people are being slapped down into the have nots (2.0) so that you end up with a more than one-tier society, and that will be the thing that affects choice. At the moment on the Internet there’s fantastic choice which is totally chaotic, I won’t say anarchist, but it’s not organised - if it becomes organised it becomes something totally different (…) [laughs]
L: That’s not the usual environment that commerce likes to work in is it
R: Oh no, no
L: And so do you think that, what about the Internet itself, is that going to be changed by this commercialisation? (4.0) I mean, what is different…
R: It depends very much on the totally different pressures with regard to legislation and the way that we become a very much more complex society, and restricting (…)  And in actual fact I was reading a fascinating article in the Sunday papers at the weekend about filtering 
L: Mmm
R: …so that you can restrict the access for children using the Internet, and this is a major issue for schools and educational purposes and libraries - we don’t censor. But the filtering systems that have been created so far in actual fact are hopelessly inefficient (2.0) because they filter out stuff that’s legitimate (3.0)
L: Well that’s right
R: It’s a right mess [laughs]
V: Can I ask a question
R: So
D: (…)
V: (…) what was the question again, um
L: No, no, that’s fine. I mean, I think this issue of filtering is quite interesting
V: Okay
L: I mean there’s so much information out there, so we don’t want it all, because like you were saying at the beginning, it’s sort of madness. (2.0) Now, I mean, do you see any commercial applications for that in relation to shopping? (4.0)
LM: (…)
D: (…) just happened to be silent at that point, did you notice
[laughs]
LM: I was going to say that one of the things that I suppose I think of as an equivalent is the junk mail you get through the post
V: Mmm
D: Mmm, yes but you get the 
L: How do you 
D:  choice whether to open it or not, same as you do with (...) you don’t have to go into those areas of the world-wide web
L: That’s a great release, I think I’ll just put it in the bin, thanks
[laughs]
D: Er you’re not going to hold me responsible for that I hope. (2.0) Yes I suppose there is the equivalent, but filtering, I don’t know (2.0) I can’t imagine how you could compose, construct a filter that would stop (2.0) be really selective and stop, I just can’t see how you do it
R: You can actually do it with junk mail and you can do it with telesales as well to  a limited extent with preferential services, um, that already exists so what you could actually do is have a wish-list of what you want
D: Oh right I see
R: Rather than filter out…
L: That’s right
R: …what you don’t want
L: Yes
D: Right, so it would be selective. Like going into the real shops - you would only go in to Marks and Spencer’s 
L:  well right
D: …and Debenhams and you wouldn’t go into Woolworths, or whatever, you know, er, so you’d do the same as that
V: Surely it depends on what you want
D: Yes, but…
L: Companies might develop who offer that service
V: A service, yeah
L: You provide that information, they construct a profile for you, then you only,  you know, you don’t get bothered by...
D: Yeah
L: That sort of thing
D: That would be very easy to do wouldn’t it?
V: Oh yeah
R: Selective dissemination of information
D: Not such a mad idea
R: Well there’s a job for me there, I’m sorry [laughs]
L: Selective dissemination of information, but also of advertising. I mean advertising you  know at the moment is a mess, doesn’t… Aren’t there possiblities here?
D: Yes. I’m just thinking you’ve stuck a chord actually I had a Readers Digest company approach me the other day 
V: You’ve won a hundred thousand pounds
[laughs]
D: No, not one of those, I’ve never had one of those
K: (…)
V: (…)
D: (It said) “which of these things are you interested in?”  so they then know what to target you with
L: That’s right
D: Same sort of thing, isn’t it? That’s the paper bit, you can do it electronically
L: You were talking about big brother, you might not even have to, you won’t have to select it…
K: Can somebody get information off you, knowing you were a user, say ordering through Tesco’s (…) know about hackers, but can somebody else summarise the…
L: Tesco’s might sell the information
V: Tesco’s might, well they will sell it for God’s sake. It’s happening now with credit cards, you go in and buy things from Tesco’s and they can tell exactly can’t they? You know, what you are buying, how often you are buying it (…) all the time
LM: Do you mean like loyalty cards?
V: Loyalty cards, sorry that’s what I mean, the loyalty cards. They can tell, it’s alright you getting the one penny, one point, but you’re giving them more information than [laughs]
D: It must be very easy indeed to monitor the sorts of things anybody was trying to get um electronically. Have you ever seen on your television in the top right hand corner a little square with lines across it
?: Yeah
V: When the program’s coming to an end
K: On ITV
D: That’s a monitor
V: Is it?
D: Yeah
V: What does it do?
D: I don’t know
[laughs]
K: It’s telling the grid, you know, got a couple of minutes of electricity
D: Um, it would be very easy to apply it electronically and keep tabs on what you’re doing, and yes it is Big Brother, but um how, you can’t, it’s impossible to guard against in the electronic age (3.0) you’ve just got to trust that the government is going to be nice
A: Or don’t have credit cards
D: Don’t have credit cards, don’t have the Internet
V: How could we survive?
[laughs]
D: You’ve forgotten what (…) is like, haven’t you?
V: I’m sorry, I don’t keep money. I never carry money with me, you know, everything (…)
A: But it’s gone too far
V: Well, it’s a choice
A: (…) around for years but in the last few years it’s just gone too far
V: But I find it convenient 
K: …and you build up points as well can’t you, yeah
V: Yeah, I find it convenient. When I go to Sainsbury’s why should I go out and take money out and go and pay for something when I can just give my card, straight on, electronically does it,  I know where I am
A: You’re happy that way, I’m happy the other way
[laughs]
V: I’m very happy [laughs]
A: In the last few years, I’ve got 4 children, and it’s frightening, it’s going too fast, it really is
L: Yeah, I was going to ask you about that. What about the younger generation?
A: What have they got to look forward to?
V: Mmm. It’s worrying
A: Home shopping
LM: [laughs]
A: Not a lot is it?
L: Well, they might like it 
?: Yeah, that’s more likely
D: My children would like to have access to the Internet until I explained to them how much it would cost just to have it, how much it would cost (…)
K: (…) leave the kid all day on the computer, spend the whole day on it, even if in if they went out they’d leave probably leave the phone-line connected 
D: That’s right
A: I wouldn’t want my children to sit in front of the screen all day, I’d rather they went out to play football
K: That’s right yeah
LM: (…) TV or (…)
A: Well that’s governed by the weather in my house
[laughs]
A: If it’s freezing cold outside, I’ll have them stay in, if it’s not they’ll be outside
K: That’s how it should be
A: But I’d rather (…)
D: But as a source of information, you know, serious information not facetious things, um the Internet gives access to all kinds of stuff 
K: Knowledge and everything, yeah
D: Again the drawback is that there’s so much of it how do you pick and choose between it? But I mean it’s there for the asking for or for the keying in for or whatever (2.0) so from that point of view (…) quite a good idea (5.0) It’s just the cost of it!
A: Well, from that point of view its a good idea
V: Most schools now, most colleges have access to the Internet haven’t they - and I should think most schools now (…) Tony Blair’s committment (..) are going to be linked to the Internet, so most children, talking about a generation gap, but they haven’t got that fear like which we had of computers
D: That’s right
V: So you know that’s not there any longer, they’re going to use it, they’re going to explore it. My son just went to University - talking about (…), you know, went to Barclays bank, went in to Natwest ’Right you want this, you want that’ Before we realised he had a Visa card, he had an Access card, he had all these cards - we didn’t sign any of them (2.0) because he’s eighteen the banks simply said ’Right you’re eighteen now’  and therefore… And before I knew my son has got 3 cards
[laughs]
V: And he can spend it, don’t ask him how he’s going to pay for it, but he can spend it [laughs] So the older generation, yes I agree with you there [laughs]
A: This may be getting off the track a little bit, because the colleges have got, they’re online - the schools are going the same way
V: They are, they are
A: You’re going to get all them school leavers hitting a computer job, looking for a computer job (2.0) Ten a penny they’ll be. If they fall down, out you go and they’ll put someone else in for peanuts. That’s how its going to go, it’s going to be a real sad sorry state, it’s all going to come crashing down (2.0) really going to come crashing down. I’d rather my son go out and be a plumber now, when he leaves school, or a fireman or a, something along those lines. That’s, that’s my view. It’s not got much to do with the shopping, but it’s the whole…
L: Yeah
A: …the whole computer orientated world and I’ve got to say it’s going to come crashing down round our ears
D: It’s the fundamental basis for so much now that um (2.0) somebody can do some serious damage with it
A: They can get in a right mess (3.0) They are worried about the millennium crash in 2000, and they’ll sort it out or whatever’s happening but I mean in twenty years’ time, thirty years’ time, I think it’s going to be horrendous, I really do
R: The bigger problem, and I think it’s already happening is in actual fact monopolisation which will break down the choice
L: Mmm
R: I think that’s the biggest threat. And that’s already happening in thinks like financial institutions 
D: Yes, I think that’s probably what I had in mind
R: Yeah
A: Monopolising everything and cutting out…
R: You’re getting less and choice because to compete people have to come together to become bigger and if you’re talking in 
A: The smaller guys going down
R: Basically the market’s stitched up by Microsoft 
A: Yeah
R: …and there’s now actually a rebellion against Microsoft because you’re  not getting the choice because they’ve got the lead in the market - it’s good stuff but you haven’t got a choice, you’ve got to have what they provide
A: It’s something like 95% of the world’s run by Microsoft, isn’t it
R: That was just a crass example but that’s the way that it happens in the present commercial world
V: (…) Bill Gates, but I don’t know about that
[laughs]
D: He’s saying nothing, have you noticed?
A: Well take what I said about the education bit - they’ll all be coming out ’I’m a computer operator, where’s my computer - give me a job’ , you know, very low paid (2.0) and it’s just if you fall down, you push a wrong button you’d be kicked out and somebody will be put in who’s just left school with you
V: But surely I mean
A: They’ll (..)
V: …you use the computer as an aid - I’m only speaking from a personal point of view - the computer is an aid, isn’t it, in terms of whatever you do, if you’re a plumber possibly you’re going to use a computer as an aid in terms of assessing and invoicing and doing all sorts of things, but it’s an aid you’re going to be using, it’s not going to take away your work (2.0)  It’s the truth, I mean, I go out I do inspections in schools and so forth. Now,  when I come back I use the computer to write my report. Ten years ago, particularly when we used to hand-write all this and send it to the office - comes back and is edited - goes back again, you know, to and fro. Now I can sit down, do my report - e-mail it to the office and it comes back, and it’s fine, so… Something that was taking me about sort of nearly three weeks to do I can now do in about five days
A: Yeah don’t get me wrong, most things are more efficient in lots of cases but not everything
R: And, is it the best use of your time
A: This is trying to cover everything
V: No, R that’s not fair. Yes, I could do with a secretary yes [laughs]
R: That wasn’t what I meant
V: Oh right
D: But that time-saving element just applies to getting stuck from the Internet in shopping.  Primarily it’s going to be for people who don’t have the time or the opportunity to go to the shops
A: Well they’re going to end up having a heart attack at an early age aren’t they because they’re working so hard
[laughs]
A: You know, I dunno though, if someone hasn’t got the time for shopping, there’s something wrong with them there, they’re working too hard
L: I use it [laughs]
D: Well, think of it in another way, if they just work ordinarily during the working day then in the evening they’re out, partying and all. But half an hour before they go out, drying their hair or, tap in a few choice things from Sainsbury’s and they’ll be there when they get home. It’s a different life-style, that’s all
R: While there’s the choice its good. The classic example that I can think of with regard to children at the moment, is where children have become accustomed within school to electronic information recourses (2.0) When people were told, children are told to go and do their homework and have a look through the encyclopaedia, they now all think ’Encarta’. And it is not the best information source available to children, and its educational level under (limitational information) is remarkable in terms of (...) but by the time they’re twelve, thirteen, it’s not providing you with the information that you need to achieve GCSEs, you need a higher level
A: They’ll come a time when everyone will be saying incarta, they won’t be able to look at a book in the school. Like you said, at the moment if you’ve got the choice it’s okay
R: I’m highly critical of some of it - the capital of Scotland on the first English edition was er Glasgow
L: Anyway, listen ..
R: Sorry
L: We’re going overtime so 
D: Oh right are we, okay
[end of discussion]
Focus group 6,  9.3.98
ABC1 Mixed


Participants			P (quiet, works for Woolworths)
				S (red hair)
				B (solicitor)
				V (administrator, strong opinions)
				T
				M 

Comments			Group took a long time to ‘warm up’. Problems 					with technology - searched for a couple of items from 				Argos which weren’t in stock. Loot site worked better - 				participant (V) found something she was looking 				for and took phone number.

				Didn’t exactly form a group bond, but most people 					talked. B (solicitor) and V talked most, but S 				and T also made a lot of contributions, M and 				P (Woolworths) less frequently.

LM: We’re doing some research at the moment, um, on, um the Internet and specifically using the Internet for shopping um and consumption and so on, um (.) so I wonder if I can ask if you can start off by introducing yourselves and telling me a little bit about what if any familiarity you have with computer technology, do you use any at work or home um (2.0)
P: My name’s P I work as a supply system for Woolworth’s, which is, I deal with buying and supplying all of the stock in the entertainment department so, and I use computers all the time  
LM:   uhuh
P: So it’s Excel, Word and work you know so it’s work specific software for ordering stock or moving stock around the country  
LM:   uhuh
P: So I use it quite a lot  
LM:   uhum
S: Um I’m S I’m a royalties administrator for a publishing company and therefore in a finance department so I use Excel mostly (…)um we have e-mail and I don’t have access to the Internet on my actual PC but I have it at home and  um that’s about it really [laughs]
B: I’m B and I’m a solicitor and we’ve got uh Word at work and we also have e-mail that’s it really [laughter]
V: Um I’m V and um I’m an administrator in a college and we use all sorts of bits and pieces, I use things for doing newsletters from pagemaker, word-processing, things of that nature um, how else can I put it, and um a lot of computer use for music so I have a sequencer
LM: Oh right
V: Yeah
LM: Okay (.) [cough]
 T: Oh, my name’s uh T and uh I use uh  computer a little bit at work not a lot I use it for uh Word and e-mail and uh at the weekends a friend of mine has has uh the Internet so I have access to it weekends a bit
LM: Right, okay
M: My name’s M I’m working in immigration um I’m learning to use a computer ‘cause I’m going to have to use it all the time
LM: Yeah
M: So I’ve just been doing a course where you do Windows (…) you move up step up from that so I’m sort  of getting there [laughs]
LM: Okay so you’ve all used computers in one form or another and (2.0) right okay, in terms of Internet users has anybody heard of electronic commerce or Internet shopping?
?: Yeah
LM: Okay can people say what they’ve heard of and where they’ve heard of it? 
?: Um just around different places, uh looked up a few sites say like Tesco’s, I’ve looked at the Tesco’s site or 
LM: Yeah
?: That sort of thing really
LM: Yeah
?: Mainly through advertising I’m aware of its existence, I don’t use it myself 
LM: Right
?: But um I use it for other things like looking for organisations and such sites, but  not for commerce
?: [  ] should be impressed [  ]
LM: Yeah (3.0)
?: I’ve heard about the Tesco one through (…) and things like that I haven’t actually seen it but (.) 
LM: Right (.) okay, so has anybody bought anything from the Internet or researched a product over the Internet? (2.0)
?: I think one of the things that I noticed about it was um credit card numbers, giving out credit card numbers, and speaking to other people, it seems that they’re not too keen to give credit card numbers over an unsecured line
LM: Right
?: Because you don’t know who else can get the number and 
LM: Yeah
?: You know what else they can do with it 
LM: Yeah right  
?:   You know so speaking to other people they’re not happy about (…)
?: I used to work for a  record company, and they um issued a product that was only available over the Internet
LM: Oh right
?: And uh a lot of people phoned up and complained that (…) their credit card details and I mean it lost us a lot of sales that way
LM: Right
?: I was doing a talk once on spirits and uh, for a hobby, and uh in particular whisky I could get access to on the Internet  
LM:   uhum
?: Through a friend which was quite useful  
LM:   oh right
?: At short, short notice you know, all the publicity material and everything it was very handy
LM: Right so you didn’t actually get hold of the, the products over the Internet that you had seen or you
?: Uh I got all the information about you know how it was made and where it was sold and everything
LM: Oh right 
?: Through the Internet it was brilliant
LM: Okay well maybe what we should do is actually have look some sites because we (…) before and uh have a go on it and see what you think (16.0) (…)
LM: Is it connected to the (…)? (…) (31.0)
PL: Okay 
LM: Not ready [laughs] fine (6.0) (…) [laughter] (…) [long pause punctuated by laughter] (…)
LM: Okay just do what right um are you okay with this for now
?: Yeah  I’ll work my way around it
LM: Right we’ve got a lot of bookmarks in here so if you want to take a look at those and see what anybody fancies to look at [coughing ] click on (…)
?: Left or right?
LM: Left there. Now, er, Barclay Square is a big mall, Tesco’s, you can see, Sainsbury’s,  Amazon is a big American bookshop, CD Now is American, so um I’ll leave it to you [laughs] let me know if you fancy anything in particular
?: Marks and Spencer’s [laughter]
?: (…)
[laughter] (10.0)
?: It’s got a home page ‘About us’, ‘worldwide’, ‘careers’, ‘annual report’ ‘financial services’, ‘customer services’ or search
?: Home page
?: Home page
?: Big decision (…) [laughter] (12.0)
?: (…) I can see it from here
?: Um
?: (…) some gift vouchers in here (13.0) [laughter]
?: Thrilling [laughter]
LM: Okay, um I think it’s worth mentioning that um Marks and Spencers’ doesn’t really let us buy anything
?: Yeah
LM: From their site at the moment (…)
?: So which ones have?
LM: Well um let’s go back to the bookmarks (…) (6.0) It’s just different things really some of them you can, Waterstone’s you can buy from, Tesco’s you can buy from (…)  car shop I think is a you can buy yourself but you can also quickly research the car market, Thomas Cook, uh I’m not sure if you can buy but you can certainly find out (…)and (…) General you can choose from interactive services (…)
?: [laughs]
?: That can do for you and um Barclay Square is a big mall, it has a range of (…) okay (…)
?: Obviously (4.0) [coughs] (9.0)
?: Barclay Square (27.0)
?: Your favourite
?: (…) (14.0)
?: Still bought them didn’t you
?: [laughs] (15.0)
?: (…)
PL: Have they got a wedding list (…)
?: (…) erm
?: Yeah
LM: Well, I mean (…)
?: [laughter]
?: Wedding list
?: Go for the wedding list (19.0)
PL: It looks like you provide your name and address and pick the products on the list
?: Right (…)[laughter]
PL: Yeah 
?: Mmm that’s a good idea in the Argos catalogue you’ve got your general you can get all your gifts from it
?: [laughter]
?: So you’re writing off to (…)
[laughter] (4.0)
LM: Right, this is er (3.0) so shall we have a look and see what we come across? [laughter] 
?: What do we want (2.0) bathroom tiles 
?: What (…)
?: Bathroom tiles
?: We might go on then
?: Bathroom towels [laughter]
?: That would be better wouldn’t it, yes
?: Oh god, oh no (…)
?: We can cope with that can’t we
?: Yeah (…)
?: Has it not got a return? (3.0) 
?: [laughs] 
?: What?
?: Oh she put her thingy in the middle
?: What?
PL: Oh you’ve got something (…)
?: Oh, did I? (…)
?: Just put towels in (4.0) (…)
?: Will we be able to buy anything else? (…) (12.0)
?: Oh [laughter]
?: (…) television [laughter]
?: General product
?: Action man yeah [laughs] (…)
?: Um what do they sell, how about furniture
?: Furniture
?: Television
?: Television
?: (…) furniture (…)
?:I’ve got to (…) this week [laughter]
PL: Maybe we should try a different site [laughter]
?: Has it not got a um
?: (…)
?: Directories
?: Has it not got like directories  
?:   Shopping (…)
?: I think it’s a reduced um set of things at the moment on Argos
?:Yeah [laughs] very [laughter] (…) (8.0)
?: It can be very frustrating watching and waiting for something to develop
?:Um (3.0) you can turn off the graphics (1.0) and then the text comes up automatically, well not so far
?: Yeah it does come up automatically [laughter] (4.0)
PL: You can stop now because you’ve got, it’s giving you a choice between um
(…)
?: Maybe part of Argos [laughter]
?: May I ask you why we’re looking at this?
LM: Well it’s just, well I’m quite intrigued to, to sort of see what you think of some of these sites you know if you haven’t seen or looked at shopping sites before um
?: (…) rather well [laughter]
?: We haven’t (…) anything yet
PL: Shall we look at  
?:   What about Tesco’s 
PL: Well we’ve got Tesco’s um on, on, on the computer 
?: Yeah
PL: Is it okay 
?: It’s up to you
PL: Oh we’ve just got   
?:   Right [laughter]
?: Oh well that was a little bit quicker then
?: Oh
PL: Yeah (…)
PL: Turn off the (…) [laughter] (…)
?: Oh here you are this has done it [laughs] (…)
PL: You get a portrait 
?: Yeah (…)
?: Is it (…)
?: (…) it would be under (.) let’s try that, try that
?: We’ve got to look for the brand name (4.0)
?: Here we go (…)
PL: Yeah, alright
?: Oh good (…) [laughter]
?: What shall we browse down now?
PL: Yes (3.0) And then if you, if you choose one, say you find one you like
?: Right okay (…)
?: Right so what it’s done is, is put it on your clipboard (.) and we can build up a set of products on the clipboard
?: Okay
PL: And then at the end of a session when we’ve got all the (connection) products you want, you can print out the clip board and that’s what information (…) (.) so if you wanted to sort of think about two or three of them you could click several and then put them on the clipboard (…) (8.0)
?: Do you know how often this is updated because I don’t think it’s everyday
LM: Yeah  I think it is updated everyday but sometimes not (…) um
PL: Have you clicked it? (5.0)
?: (…) [laughter] (…)
LM: I wonder if we can make it to a different site quickly so I can (…)
?: Yeah
LM: Maybe if we look at  
PL:   What about the Tesco thing
?: (…)
LM: Maybe if we try Tesco’s somebody else want to have a go
?: Yeah (…)
?: What are we going to look at Tescos?
?: (…)
PL: Right here we go double click on that (4.0)
LM: Again let me know what you think (…)
PL: Well er this is not on-line now 
?: Oh right
?: So this programme’s downloaded
?: Oh what do we do now?
?: Um  Argos [laughter] (…)
PL: Choice of different things
?: Um
?: (…) champagne
PL: Yeah champagne that’s great (…)
PL: Amazing choice
?: How much money have you got? [laughter]
PL: (…)choice of quite, you’ve got a good choice of champagne
LM: Okay that’s
?: Oh is that as far as it goes
LM: No if you click on that again double click again it should, (…) try double click
PL: There we are
?: Oh it should tell you what (…) oh (…)
?: This is my shopping list
?: Yeah compiled carefully [laughter]
LM: Um you should see somewhere on the (…) champagne, I’m taking my clothes off quite expensive actually [laughter]
?: Um how much is it?
?: Twenty-two ninety nine
?: So it adds it all up for you aswell does it?
PL: Yeah
?: Oh           
?: (…)
PL: Ostrich
?: Maybe delete, maybe delete the champagne [laughs]
?: Oh no 
PL: No,no
?: You can use your club card (…)
LM: I don’t know about club cards actually
PL: Yeah you can  
?:   (…)
PL: It’s best done automatically you have to you have to have a club card (…)they issue you with one if haven’t got one
?: (…)
LM: Because you can see with the little cursor perhaps because it’s got its own cursor that it’s about to eat the bagels
?: Oh right (…) [laughter]
?: Oh yeah (2.0) I can’t afford it [laughs]
?: (…) credit cards (…) [laughter]
?: Oh that’s a bit better
LM: And then I need, go back to the search (…) and that’s kind of how it works
?: Yeah 
LM: First of all find out what you want (…)
PL: And when you’ve got your list together you send it down there
?: And they deliver it to your home or something do they?
PL: Yeah
?: Have you actually ordered from here
PL: I have yeah
?: Yeah and how long does it take you after (…)
PL: Well, well you can say when you actually want it
?: (…) weeks [laughter]
PL: No they give you they give you like a calendar comes up and you can choose the day and then you choose the two hour slot when you would be there to receive it then they deliver it
?: And is it free for them to deliver it or do they charge you?
PL: Well they haven’t charged me so far but they have, they are going to introduce the charge five pounds
LM: It’s supposed to be a five pounds flat rate
PL: Flat rate whatever you buy
?: (…)
?: It’s a sh, it’s a shame that they haven’t given any more detail like you might want just whole range eggs and whatever and you could ask them that for the for the champagne you might want to know what, what’s the difference between all the champagnes dealt with to look into more detail as you’re at home so you have plenty of time to think about it and to find out about it  they’ve just got a shopping list there
PL: Yeah
LM: You mean rather than just sort of the name of the item (…) turn it round, look on the back
?: Yeah, you might want you might want a paragraph like you know it’s from a certain area of whatever ur
PL: Right, right (…)
?: The reason why it cost so much is because you know so if you was having a party or something you could come out with that rubbish [laughter]
?: Now I want some Radox revitalising but I can’t get it to do anything
LM: Try clicking down again, just go down there because it looks like it’s got a lot of Radox
?: I want to try and click on a particular one but it’s not, not happening
LM: Oh, oh it’s actually there 
?: Yeah
LM: Well just try and double click on it again because I find, when you do it twice (3.0)
?: (…) [laughter]
LM: There we go, yeah for some reason you have to (…) (6.0)
?: What’s available
?: Exactly
PL: Have a look
?: Huh
PL: You can have a look (2.0) [laughter]
?: Um not a lot really
PL: You can send messages to them
?: What to Tesco’s?
PL: Yeah
?: [laughs] Right, fine
PL: Comments on it
LM: Do you need figures to actually (…) has it got your email address
PL: This one hasn’t no [laughs]
?: So if you were like an angry customer instead of going to the place you could send  
PL:   Yeah you could e-mail them [laughter]
?: (…)
PL: It’s because it’s a new service they’re really keen and everybody is really polite to the client
?: Mmm [laughter]
?: It’s because they’ve got nothing else to do because they’re going to charge you a fiver [laughter]
?: Are we going to look at registration?
PL: Yeah
?: (…) click on the um Radox then (…)Oh [laughs]
PL: I don’t know what you got into there [laughter]
?: I don’t either
PL: You’d better cancel that
?: Oh we’re trying  but it’s not happening
?: Try the little thing in the corner (…) (2.0)
PL: Oh blocked him out brilliant
?: Hum?
LM: What’s that then?
PL: Don’t know (2.0) that’s the (…) [laughter]
?: Alright
?: Okay
?: Alright  
?:   do the registration (…)
?: Or shall we, shall we leave that urgh (…)
LM: Okay what were your first impressions of those (…) [laughs] be honest
?: Cumbersome
LM: Cumbersome
?: Yeah
?: It’s all the time it takes really it’s on your phone bill while you’re looking at it so it’s a very expensive way to do it
?: Mmm
?: I mean you know yeah it’s convenient from Tescos but it’s cheaper to drive down there  and you know go down and look at everything (…) if you need to choose anything it would be cheaper on your petrol
?: It’s too time consuming uh, it’s sort of all there you’re online, scanning and you’re trying to get something quickly but it kind of goes off and it gets a bit complicated but I suppose if you get familiar with it you can knock it out quite quickly
LM: Yeah
?: I mean it’s good for someone who just can’t go out and do their own shopping but other than that
?: (…) the first couple of times it would be fun to do but generally you just think you’re paying someone to do this rather than just going down to the shop and buying it yourself (.) also I think you might things like fruit and veg you might want to actually choose it yourself (…) into the store and choosing what you want you know and with this they’re just sending you what they think you want in certain respects
?: Yeah
?: It might be nice to get out the house as well, just to go somewhere  
?:   yeah [laughter]
?: I hate to sound boring but you know sometimes  
?:   you do actually enjoy the whole mission itself
?: Like everyday I have to get out the house so you know something to do sometimes get a bit of shopping
LM: Yeah I mean what  
?:   if this avoids me going to the supermarket  I’ll be (…)actually [laughter]
?: I still wouldn’t want to give out my card details or anything
?: Yeah
?: No, I wouldn’t
?: There must be (…) you dial this up or you look it up, you know what you want 
in your head you go through and you buy it,  but if you’re in a store you’re browsing around you always see something that you haven’t thought about before (…)
LM: what about, that happens on-line
?: Well yeah but  you, you’re always watching the time aren’t you  
LM:   oh right  
?:   it cuts down (…)
LM: Okay
?: And when you can actually see it then probably you’re tempted more than just the mere mention of it
?: And if it had like a display of a shop with all the things on it and you know it would be different but
?: Yeah, it would be better if it could actually be like a shopping basket [laughter] (…) see something on telly, you could just put it in your basket or you could just go and have a look at everything and go up to look at it and read actually the packet and everything but go and make money (…) couldn’t do that [laughter]
?: (…) needs to be an entertainment booklet, entertain you about the shop
?: Oh yeah, yeah (…)
?: I thought that was a better way (…)
?: Yeah (…)
LM: Yeah and because it’s more like uh sort of  real supermarket experience?
?: Mmm (3.0)
?: Sounds more fun than what we’ve got
LM: Yeah okay (.) so what other sort of differences between normal shopping and I’m quite interested you know what, what you like about say going to a supermarket or other shops, (.) or if you do or what  
?:   No no now that they are open at different times you know it’s like you can just get up and go whenever you want you know it makes you feel like sort of scared in the middle of the night (…) you can do you’re just sitting there it’s quite frightening isn’t it?
?: I would like to see the offers as well special offers like you know buy two get one free whatever like they do and that does tend to make you buy things you know than probably when you just buy the one or not even buy it at all
?: It makes it seem quite sterile, sterile (…) shopping , it’s not really got a lot of emotion in it, or enjoyment behind it
LM: Yes
?: You tend to underestimate the interaction you know even it’s just a smile from a check-out assistant when you’re shopping {laughter] interaction sometimes people just get out the house as you said  to go and shop I find myself going back down the street just to get out the house every once in a while
?: My mate, I think he was revising for an exam dates he went out and bought a kettle just to relax a little and [laughter] you know just to get out the house you know if, if he’d have done that or using that, it’s just that the work he was doing all day
LM: Yeah, yeah
?: I think  (…) is very exciting as a concept is a great idea 
?: I think it’s great
?: But I’m not satisfied with the security extent of it, but I could quite happily just tap what my shopping list has there and perhaps have someone deliver it later on because I just loath shopping
?: So maybe if you signed up and then gave you like your own code number and you just gave the code number and then they have 
?:   Right
?: At the other end  
?:   That’s a good idea
?: But not you know (…) cadge your details 
LM: Right
?: And also if they managed to update so when you go to your server they could maybe do it on their own (…) or something so that
LM: Right
?: And you know you could be charged so much for it
LM: Yeah (2.0) and what about something like Loot, I mean not doing transaction online but you’re getting information about products
?: That’s quite, that’s just going down to browse and see what’s about (.) if you’re after something general and also the clipboard aspect is quite nice as a sidetrack buying from Loot and circling a couple of them and when you get onto the next page you know to go back so (…) clipboard (…) [laughter]
?: Yeah I like the clipboard  
?:   the information service I think things like that work really well
LM: Yeah
?: (…) it would have to be cheaper to do it this way for it to be an attraction
?: Than buying (…)
?: Mmm
?: Yeah
?: I mean this is going to cost twice as much than I’d rather buy (…)
?: Well you’d have to have the equipment to start with  
?:   well there’s that as well  
?:   if you don’t have your own you have to go and get, you know I’d rather go out and buy a newspaper and get it from there
?: If it was something we had access to at work I find I’d (…)sit and browse through Loot [laughter]
?: Yeah and get the sack [laughter] (…)
?: So I know it’s easy for you to look up for a (…) that’s what a couple of minutes
?: The thing is I know that, that if with the Loot as well though cos I look through the Loot all the time so I know exactly where I’m going with it you know and what key words to look for, so I’m just doing it in a computerised way instead of like doing it manually
LM: Yeah, um have any of you used any other sort of interactive forms of shopping  rather than say (…) but things like catalogue shopping or buying things over the phone, ever given your credit card number over the phone
?: Oh yeah, yeah done that
LM: So what sort of things?
?: Going to the pictures and um tickets for concerts and clothes and toiletry and store catalogues
LM: Right
?:  And just a bit of like home shopping 
?: Shopping (…) on your cable [laughter]
?: My friend buys almost everything from that store
LM: Have you used that store yourself?
?:Yeah a friend of mine got me at it because he uses it as a method of entertainment I think [laughter] but you know (.) once
LM: What did you think of that?
?: Oh it was okay it was sort of just like a catalogue or something like that you know, but er, it’s a bit weird (…) this friend of mine I’m sure had the numbers written down  how you use your time refers to a very small group of  people who use it for a good time (2.0)
?: There’s definitely a market there but (…) just for no reason you do buy stuff but it is an entertainment thing as well
?: I think it’s a very dangerous thing in particular for the consumers (…) socially and particularly in your home
?: I always think of Dustin Hoffman’s sort of Rainman where he has to get the set, I  don’t know if you’ve seen the movie he’s autistic and he has to buy everything that they put on the shopping channel to get the set [laughter] (…)
LM: Do you think that’s true about Internet shopping, in what way do you think that might take us (…)?
?: (…) valuable way, it’s a pottering method of relaxation you start consuming you’re buying I think that’s quite, you have to be very careful with that, it’s just another way of getting more money from people (2.0) that’s how I see it honestly right down to it it’s just consumers and consumers (…) good thing
?: Yeah, it can be too easy too easy to buy stuff, you’re just on there all the time
?: We’re just going to turn into a whole bunch of couch potatoes [laughter]
?: (…) lot of things like I never go clothes shopping and I never walk into a shop you know for a suit or something but in a catalogue it’s different ur you feel a bit more comfortable than to actually walk in being met by someone you know it’s like what you would get in a supermarket I think
?: I’d just find that a complete waste of time [laughter]
?: Yeah 
?: Yeah, but you get to try it on you don’t you know if would fit it never looks the same on you 
? You want to see yourself in it really
?: Yeah
LM: But you’re saying like there might be certain advantages in a way
?: Yeah
LM: Not necessarily in the Net but in not having to go to the shop
?: Mmm
?: Because you spend ages in a shop if you’re not a hundred percent or even if you know what you’re looking for you spend ages just looking round the shop buying things
?: I think it really depends on the sort of thing you’re buying, if you’re buying something like (…)or some type of equipment where you know you don’t need to see it you have it in front of you, you just got it listed what it has and what it does and that’s good enough, but if it’s something like it’s food or it’s fruit or whatever you want to see if it’s not mouldy you know or if it’s clothes you know you need to how it fits, fits you correctly
?: I tried on er at Christmas a pair of boots that I quite liked you know I sort of saw adverts and they didn’t have my size (…) well we’ve got another branch in Oxford Street, so you go there and they didn’t have that either so you then you end up going other shoe shops trying to find the same fit ‘cos with the advantage (…) once you specifically had it in mind you want to buy it
LM: Yeah (4.0) okay um another thing I suppose I wonder what you think is if, (.) if this takes off sort off what are the implications for relations with producers with brand names for example how would you think of the relationship with Marks and Spencers ‘or Tesco’s or whatever at the moment and could it change if you (…) to go into that shop or do you have any comments?
?: I think in relation to like the personal side of it I mean  you can shop with Marks and Spencer’s change over to Avon and you wouldn’t really know well you would know but it wouldn’t make much difference because you get the same thing but whereas you go into Marks and Spencer’s you going in there and say oh yeah I really like these (…) you go in there you just go and have a look round you know you may not shop round all day but you still  you know have a look round
?: The person you could be communicating to on the computer could be leaving in two hour’s time for all you know you might have a criticism and that could be their last day  mind you I suppose in a shop it might be the same [laughter]
?: But at least then you’ve got some sense of where you are and what you’re dealing with it’s like you don’t know what the people are like that are dealing with the sales and goods, Marks and Spencer’s might become just another sub-folder like Argos and everything else and you can’t see who has the leading reputation or how to decide their food’s good because you have no real concept of who the comparisons (…) you walk between two shops and you see something you really good and you say oh yeah that looks good, I’ll pop next door have a look I mean for various reasons it’s, it’s worth viewing your product a few more times (…) it’s like you know they spend all this time and money decorating shops making  the right colour like Christmas decorations at Christmas and just to make sure it’s a nice environment to be in because they know that you like that so what they’re actually doing is drawing us from that environment which is something that they’ve invested a lot of time and energy in making the environment look you know (…) to their custom so it’s going to shoot themselves in the back in a way as well when it comes back down to the media aspect of it
LM: Yeah and like you were saying about sort of special offers or buying things that you didn’t intend to buy, I was wondering whether not you think of that as a good thing or a bad thing whether being able to get away from the sort of (…)?
?: It it’s could ‘cos of the drinks they offering next time you go and buy that it’s like it’s really bad and you don’t want because you didn’t, didn’t budget for it or whatever you know
?: It’s the experience of it as well isn’t it seeing all those different things
?: (…) I don’t do that (…) I spend hours [laughter]
?: You do feel in a way that when you look at them you know you smell them that’s part of the experience as well as what you’re taking away with you
?: What’s wrong with this is all this is doing is giving you another option if you want to go to the bank you still can do, but but what this service is, is basically if you can’t be fussed to leave you’re in a rush whatever then you can use it
?: The problem is, is that we keep giving ourselves other options for things and people stop exercising because they can travel by other transport or by car um people stop taking care of themselves because they can buy a packet of food, give us other options we take other options and we’re talking about well if you look at this dysfunctional society we’re creating and wonder why
?: It’s freedom of choice though, isn’t it
?:You know, we’re talking about, we’re on about kids watching computer games going ‘oh this could make them socially dysfunctional and we’re just talking about that as adults we’re talking about this, this form of consumerism that’s going to make us even more introverted than we are to start with anyway
?: Yeah but if you had a cold though and you was out, can go out shopping, find it useful, I get one a year  [laughter] so if I use it once a year
?: Yeah say for disabled people who can, they are able to stay at home all the time, they will just become more and more intro  
?:   (…) social interaction
?: Yeah
?: Talking about disabled people I mean (…) but they are housebound all the time and when a carer comes round and takes them out shopping they get to look at the world for a while and explore like the rest like the majority do that’s actually very valuable time to them
?: You could put a terminal in front of them and say well there you go you can fend for yourself now
?: Yeah
?: It’s actually limiting yeah but there are possibilities there you know for those who want to take the advantage out but those who want to avoid it you know, I think of course yes there will always be other options but when you offer this encouragement to consumers they could get taken up, you know we won’t be able to handle our bills anymore they go via direct debit, often people don’t even know what they’re paying for their electricity anymore, they just know that somebody just keeps taking money from their account they don’t question it because they add it up you know it’s quite controlled (…) some of the aspects
?: I mean I use computers a lot in various forms that I do so I know how progressive they are and how limiting they can be. I spend up to twelve hours a day sometimes trapped in a room by myself um you know and become more and more introverted and you watch yourself withdraw from society when you spend long periods of the month either writing or editing something you know it’s, I don’t know if I would want to have this online you know, if I’d want to bring anyone back to,  you know the way that I see life, life can be quite (…) anyway, we’re all too busy you know (.)
LM: Who do you think, anyone who do you think that um that Tesco’s for example are aiming their service at?      
?: Professional people who may not have time to go to the shops um (…) 
?: Don’t want to drive
?: Drive, yeah
?: People who don’t want to go shopping  
?: Someone whose so organised in their mind that they know exactly these are the items they want and there’s no point in them going to the shops you know when they can say this is exactly what I need to have a dinner party or whatever boomp, boomp, boomp, they’d not be interested in the special offers or you know whatever else is going on there they just want specific items
?: How, how if you were to order something from Tesco’s how would you get it what happens do they deliver it to you within a certain amount of time or what?
LM: Yeah you tell them when you want it and they come round and give it (…)
?: [laughter] you’re still taking it maybe not as much if you went to the shop but you’re still taking quite a lot of time
?:You still find you know that you spend half an hour on-line browsing through everything anyway 
?: Because if  I was checking it
?: Yeah just to find the things, five minutes plus to find the one thing, if I looked through the regular dozen things that I look for every other day I know how much time I’d be on line, ‘cos that’s like ‘cos by the time you add up the pennies you know four pence a minute peak hour you know that’s paying for the services because you do pay for it
?: What so um going back to your last question you also like to have the shopping there because a lot of people will buy for that like dinner or something to cook that night, tomorrow or whatever and if you’ve got to wait for it then you might not (…) want it the next day or you know you might want to check the sell by date to see whatever but you know it’s not, not there you haven’t got the choice to have it over the (…) number of time (…)
?: Yeah but you do because if you want something you go to the shop and actually buy it you know [laughter]
?: Yeah if you want it enough I suppose yeah
?: Well it’s really I mean this is just an option if you can’t be bothered or don’t want to go out (…) then you use this facility, if I go out shopping if you want something like evening’s meal then you go out to the shops and buy it
?: Well you can actually order say (…) they deliver it (…) time
?: It’s nice to use this and combine it with normal shopping not just to use that (…)
?: I think I’d only use it if I had a cold or something like that for shopping you know groceries
?: I think they could expand it though for things like catering services or whatever which would be good for parties or events or that would you know, probably be a bit  different
?: Serve it all before [laughter]
?: Yeah exactly (…)
?: They do that in America like they er you can order at the supermarket your Christmas dinner [laughter] then you turn up at Safeway’s which is open twenty-four hours at a certain time collect the whole thing and take it, take it off [laughter] yeah
LM: Do you think that’ll take off over here?
?: Maybe (…)
?: Probably will though
?: Yes
?: It’s not necessarily a good thing just because it’s easier doesn’t (…) just because it’s new doesn’t mean to say it’s better
?: Just because it’s advanced doesn’t mean it’s going to work either I mean we all sat there we’re, we’re talking about the (…) you know (…) I mean I can’t even get real utility services nowadays you can’t get can’t get the gas man to arrive or the washing man guy someone screws up a part goes missing it disappears
?: They can’t find they can’t find your house that’s all it is
?: Yeah [laughter] (…)
?: Do you know if that happened you wouldn’t (…) 
?: No
?: I mean the gas is different ‘cos you’re obliged to, to use it if you’re washing machine is broken down you’re obliged to have someone come round to mend it
?: But it’s still (…) if you’ve done your week’s um um shopping on that and just didn’t turn up that night you’re going to be peed off  
?:   Oh incredibly 
?: Even if it only happened once but you’re still  
?:    [laughter] well if it happened once you ain’t gonna use it again are you
?: (…) I mean I use services that I said I wouldn’t use again because the convenience I mean that’s the whole thing
?: The convenience aspect comes after the equation there though doesn’t it, if he doesn’t turn up where’s the convenience
?: (…) the same thing when you go and call a plumber you’re not quite sure whether you’re going to be sat in the entire day but if you’re waiting between two and eight anyway  because you live there,  but yeah  
?:   But that’s different though isn’t it because for that I mean that is something you are completely dependent on it whereas here you can still actually get up and go out to the shops
?: I think also we’re talking about being creative and inventive the whole concept of this kind of  (…) consumerism is quite incredible  
?:   Yeah, but if it doesn’t work, you’re going to create a dependency aren’t you?
?: Yeah, I don’t know really I’m looking at it from across the board though I’m not really looking at it from  the perspective of, of the kind of like able bodied majority that it’s quite capable of going shopping for themselves this is something that is going to be utilised by  those people and the many people that will be more reliant on it  and will be coerced into using that as a form of shopping
?: The only way to be coerced in using it is if it was cheaper than going out to the supermarket  that’s the only reason it’d coerce me
?: Or (.) if they were forced to do so I mean for example if, if assistance were withdrawn the customer services available then they’re forced to use that (…)
?: Mind you it’d be useful if you lived in the Orkney Islands wouldn’t it you know, [laughter] lobster soup er you wanted some Welsh Bit or whatever it was something happens sort of in your little farm turns up in a little truck [laughter] you know (…) in Minnesota a friend of mine when he wants fresh coffee can order it through something like this and it turns up on his door he’s sort of like twenty miles away from the nearest store to get anything
?: I’ve got a telephone number I can ring up if I want to get fresh coffee and a sandwich 
?: Yeah [laughter]
?: And I don’t pay for an Internet provider
?: Yeah
?: Yeah
?: But I read something yesterday about they’re thinking about charging customers for using car parks (…) not you know the government’s charging them for using like Tesco’s or whatever car parks and if that happens then people will be forced to use things like this, how the hell you know come out of there like I’ve got a trolley load of shopping  how am I gonna get home by bus I just couldn’t I mean that would force people that have got access to, to different to use it (…)
?: They charge a fiver to drive down Camden high street you know really [laughs]
?: Yeah the worst thing about (…) but Sainsbury’s which is a street way which is the biggest supermarket in this area  you go I’m going to have that that and that you get to the check out and you can’t actually physically carry the stuff you’re doing so you end up going in a cab for a fiver anyway don’t you? (.)
?: But um you know  
?:   It would still be good if there were areas in all parts of the country where you can do that, I mean Tesco’s promise to be able to deliver within two days (…) wherever you’re based
?: Yeah
?: Not if you’re (…) [laughter] not if you’re a street away from Sainsbury’s that’s open twenty-four hours a couple of beers,  it’s not worth it unless you’ve got a cold
?: The thing that this would be best for  
?:   [laughter] he’s got stuff down his gob there [laughter]
?: (…) [laughter]
?: The thing that I think this would be best for like the elderly that will get to carry their shopping um and also they’re not gonna have a computer, but elderly people are you know computer phobic they’re not going anywhere near it they wouldn’t know how to do it because it would cause radiation
?: Yeah [laughter]
?: Or whatever you know what they think, you know but it’s a shame because it would be best suited to them if they could maybe understand it more, they could know how to use it and they’d be a bit more comfortable then that would be better for them
?: It’s geared towards the professional financial though isn’t it that’s who it’s geared towards
?: Mmm, mmm
?: It’s geared for those who have the equipment have the time have the money (3.0)
LM: Okay there’s just sort of like a couple of things that I was going to ask about one is about um it’s about sort of consumer rights okay and it sort of relates to what you were saying about sort of Internet marketing supermarket um it’s about the kind of advertising and marketing that might go on the on-line services (…) I don’t know if anyone noticed that on Loot there was a big board with adverts flashing um so I wonder what you think about that about that and how it might develop and on-line services and also I wonder what you think about consumer regulations and possibilities in that area  
?:   (…) can hardly speak for professional experience, I mean I’m um involved with the consumer more and ur I mean regulation on the Internet (…) system ur  
?: (…)
?: How are you well no it’s not, because possibly they put any rubbish they want on that and ur you know they (…) you could bring in legislation which would provide adequate consumer protection for the UK based organisations but when you’ve got something coming in you know from North America or the Far East or whatever it is legally impossible to regulate it (.) simple as that [laughs] and ur there’s no way you can protect a consumer in that situation
LM: What are the implications for that?
?: You risk being shafted basically [laughter]
?: You end up paying two three minutes of your telephone bill to watch their logo flash while you’re waiting for the pages to come up I mean you’re actually paying for that advertising projected at you why [laughs] you know I mean that’s, that’s when you start getting shafted by it and that’s where do you draw the line at that  
?:   It’s just the same as those horrible things that you get now when you phone people up where you get you know press this and then blah blah blah and they read you out a list of options (…)
?: I get really angry about that
?: Ooh
?: You still get put through to a person at the end of it [laughter] it’s like what was the point of me pressing all those buttons
?: (…) [laughter]
?: I rang up the gas board today and they were putting my telephone number my customer (…) eight numbers and then had to wait and then after that they said oh sorry we’ll put you through to an advisor and then they came back and said sorry we could get through to your advisor it’s like try again later so I’ve been on the phone for two and a half minutes putting in digits try again later I hate that kind of thing I don’t like the (…)  
?:   Yeah but it’s like, like the London Transport one you know you just want to find out how to get from somewhere to somewhere and like you wait for half an hour and you press all these different buttons and oh and it’s you know the same system works on here you know you’ve got through and then while you’re trying to get through about one particular thing it’s like throwing all this other rubbish at you
?: And when you said consumer protection I thought well what happens if all your shopping doesn’t turn up, you know if we have a delivery in the office you immediately check everything on the line is there but when you’ve got your shopping turned up you won’t necessarily do that, isn’t that a bit of a worry ‘cos you know if I was at the other end boxing it I’d forget to put something in it [laughter]
?: Yeah sometimes it is policy where they will take your word for it really there’s not much proof either way is there?
?: That’s true, that’s true or if they say that on-line it’s not there then what are you supposed to do  
?:   Yeah you need more than um you know (2.0)
?: There is room for error and then what happens is that rather than being there and the woman grabbing your stuff from the customer beyond you putting it through a (…) 
?: Ooh no
?: Doing it by computer serve you  don’t have the facts (…)
?: (…) I haven’t even ordered that [laughter]
?: Well if you haven’t paid for it you complain [laughter]
?: (…) order all this stuff on the machine but someone the other end has got to like get this stuff for you and load it and you know if it really did take off people would just get really fed up with doing it and I’m sure they’d just chuck in any old junk in your basket and you know especially if it’s like you said someone might be leaving that day you know I don’t care you know [laughter]
?: So there’s no guarantee in the value of your (…) [laughter]
?: They might get generous they might be like oh they’d like those (…) [laughter]
?: It’s a very cheap way of (…) to train their staff really because all they’ve got to do is go round putting something in a box
?: Wouldn’t have to build a new store either
?: Yeah you know I mean they don’t have to train ‘em I mean you know Tesco’s are expensive um training for management and the rest of staff so it saves them a lot of money by not doing that doesn’t it because you know these people could be socially you know whatever
?: Challenged
?: Could be a two pound (…) yeah [laughter]
?: But (…) that way it probably doesn’t (…) because they aren’t so confident at chance so you know I suppose you can’t
?: Yeah (.)
?: I mean alright it’s a nice service but I don’t think it’s ever going to become majority service for buying I mean I just see this as being an option of maybe five to ten percent that the shopping population will take advantage of
?: Less than that I think
?: Mmm
?: But the thing is though in providing these services where, where do these sort of financially everybody who wishes not to use them on the Internet, I mean do we then pay them as pay it as part of the increasing prices and stuff that (…) new communications (…) advertise you’ll spend more money advertising  
?:   Well we’re doing that already [laughter] you know television advertisements 
?: You know it’s like saying okay I’m giving you like ten quid a month or give you twenty no giving twenty to ten is fair enough for me I don’t know every time I walk down the street and I have to suffer billboard the indignity of billboard advertisements I don’t pay for them but I mean if I started to pay for your use of the service (…)  
?:   That’s what you do I mean indirectly  if you buy that product you’re paying for it because a percentage of say for example weetabix  
?:   Well yes that’s what I’m saying we extend that we extend that past what we pay already for these, for shops and services to advertise themselves do we extend that once again?
?: Is it our choice though?
?: It is our choice do we have is it our choice?
?: Yeah now, now if everyone, everyone tonight says would say now we’re not going to use it then they’re not going to encourage people to do it
?: Well, we would because it’s somewhat (…) ground plan um Tesco’s, Marks and Spencer’s whoever uses this have already made such and such a financial commitment to it which we will ultimately be paying through the prices, so the way round it I suppose is not to use any product or service advertised in the newspaper [laughter] that’s the only way
?: (…) society (…) [laughter]
?: (…)
?: Um (…) about the advertising aspect of it you can always turn a computer off I mean you’re bombarded with it down the street when you see a billboard like you said you can’t so that’s more effective
?: Totally
?: Yeah, exactly you’re there, you know, with a computer you can just turn off and do something else, it’s the same with television
?: I mean another is we’re looking at another form of bombarding us with advertisements I mean advertisements are much more than just a whole concept of having products in your face it’s about social ideals it’s about the universal picture of how we recognise ourselves through advertising so it’s a hell of a lot more than just oh no that washing powder with that girl in a bikini again we’re looking at the girl in a bikini and we start we create our social mentality for advertising I don’t want it on my computer screen I spend hours in front of the mirror bombarding myself with questions about my social reality and how I fit it I don’t want in it my work place I don’t want it (…) and my PC I’ve enough of a headfuck as it is dealing with not being a social norm bombarded everyday for it  I don’t want it on my computer why suffer that why choose that?
LM: So that wouldn’t be (…) [laughter] no but I’m serious in a way are they shooting themselves in the foot yet again by making things  
?:   (…)  it isn’t shooting themselves, consumers we’re trained consumers and we’ll always consume we’ll use every avenue possible given to us to consume because that’s what we’re told to do because we’re told it’s convenient and it’s an advanced modern societal thing to do and basically all it’s doing is stripping us of our right by choice of what we’ve paid for product wise in taxes and everything else, it’s like I was speaking to somebody about politics the other day and she described us as consumers and I thought woah hang on the consumer has the right a choice of what they purchase the government is not that way you know from the voting system (…)it’s not the same I mean  
LM:   You mean assumptions about choice  
?:   Yeah I mean I don’t think people understand that we’re, we’re trained to believe that advertising is (…) it is,  I don’t think so
?: You’ve got a choice whether or not you click the icon
?: Mmm?
?: Isn’t the choice for you whether or not you click on the icon you know bring it all up 
?: Yeah, I mean  
?:   You’re not obliged to I mean in many ways you’ve got more choice here than for example when you’re watching commercial television
?: (…) that’s where you can say oh well don’t want to take notice of that woman you know spread over that car or not really no (…) let’s not open those magazines that torture us so but because we have a  social conscience we use computer systems
?: Yes but you don’t have to don’t have to actually click onto the whole shopping list
?: Do you use a word processor or do you use a typewriter when you type a letter?
?: I use a word processor
?: Okay why?
?: Because I’ve got the computer there
?: Like you’ve the systems for it, the whole office is set up around (…) you have basically you have to use it you have to use it you haven’t bought into it you’ve been sold into it there’s a difference
?: Yeah  I mean it’s like if you don’t use a computer or word processor now you’re like a social misfit 
?: (…) so you can be part of what’s going on
?: Yeah but I mean they aid you like speed, you know just general stuff like being able to help you file and save everything, I mean just the amount of space you take up when you just have everything on the paper
?: But having said that my friend was taking me somewhere for a while and this woman uses a manual typewriter and she had to type every single letter individually and I mean (…) [laughter]
?: No I’m saying they’re good they’re good things but you don’t want to be bound to them (…)
?: Yeah but I mean you know when you’re trying to run a business and you’ve got to get things done quickly (…) you know like (…) letters a day  
?:   In that case (…) [laughter]
?: I mean it’s just a lot of new technological thing you know it’s just what’s new what they’ve developed and what you know they can get you to use and buy and make money on really
?: Backstairs
?: Mmm
?: We are a big money charity aren’t we let’s be honest [laughter] (3.0)
?: (…) (2.0)
?: Okay um we’re probably running out of time so if anyone’s got any more food for thought then thank you (2.0) I get the general impression  that you’re not that bothered
?: Not really
?: Not interested
?: If there was nothing else you could do if you (…) were happy to use it, you know or you weren’t able to go to the shop or and you did have a computer system then yeah I would use it (…)
?: I don’t like using direct debit and I think this is would just be another step further (…) direct debit means, get screwed and I wouldn’t be happy about it
LM: Right
?: I think things like this but that’s the whole point of asking us they can work but they’re also (…) so forgive great bouts of cynicism it’s going to be more connected and we will be reconnected  (…) but it’s a fear of like she said of being able to sit down and have that (…) if you’re in control
LM: Do we have any, what control do we have?
?: (…) computer (…)  
?:   Dodgy credit cards [laughter]
?: (…) but I mean it’s your choice at the end of the day I mean you choose whether to have a computer or turn it on whatever you know it’s your choice
?: Control is perhaps implemented when you’re not, it can be, you know forcible use 
?: (…) as long as we have that choice as long as we have choice as well as development um you know it’s fine
LM: Okay um thank you, it’s been very helpful [laughter]
?: It’s a great joy that a lot of this market research doesn’t come to Tesco or anything
[laughter]
?: Or Argos [laughter]

Focus Group 7,  09.03.98
C2DE Mixed


X: Moderator, B:, L:, S:, M:, P:
R:

X: If I could start by just going round, asking you to say what your names are and what general experience with computing you’ve had, and the Internet as well if you’ve had some with that
B: Yeah, well, my name’s B. I’ve got a couple of computers at home, but I’ve had no experience with the Internet at all
X: Right. What do you use the computers for?
B: Oh various things. My mum’s got a caravan, I tend to do all the paperwork on it. Mainly that really
L: My name’s L. I’ve got a computer at home - I’ve got two children - we all use it and ... I teach, I’m a special needs teacher so each classroom’s got a computer. Only the head at the moment’s got access to the Internet but we’re able to go on it - we’re being trained up if you like - and then if we’re efficient enough and we go on enough courses then hopefully we can get one for ourselves. With the national grid as well coming along that should give them a bit of emphasis to buy one - to actually put us on
S: My name’s S. I’ve got a computer at home - PC - and I use computers all day at work - but not so much like... good computers just rubbish (distant) computers [laughs] which we have all our photographic equipment and everything on - you know selling - that sort of... but we do actually have a digital department so I’m able to go on there and mess around and do little bits and that. So I’ve only been on the Internet a few times and I’ve sort of got the hang of it - it’s quite easy once you get on there but it’s quite easy to get hooked as well - I’m sort of holding back on getting it at home as well because I’m not sure that I’m going to be hooked on it that long. And that’s it really... it’s everyday... it’s part of my life and work [.]
M: Hi, I’m M - I’ve got two PCs at home and I work with computers at work. The problem is - I had a fax modem which obviously gave me lots of [.] and I did have the Internet but I’ve found that it’s costing - it took so long to load on - I think it’s because my actual (RAM) was (insufficient). So in the end I had problems with my fax-modem - it didn’t like Windows - so I got rid of the fax-modem so I haven’t (got much Internet experience)
X: But you’ve had a go
M: Yes, it’s OK, it is addictive [laughs]
P: My names P, I’m an actor. I’ve set up a […] and we use computers [.]. I’m not (just) an actor - I’ve done lots of other jobs as well. I’ve worked in (various) offices and have (worked with computers and on windows). I don’t have a computer, my flatmate does and he has the Internet and I occasionally use it
R: My name’s R, I’m a locksmith and I like computers. I run my whole business from computers - all my stationary - everything. I use the Internet all the time. I use it to [] or the kids use it and I think it’s fantastic yeah. Once you get on it [M laughs] it’s really good, I’ve got no problem at all with it. The only problem is that the speed’s a bit slow - y’know I’ve updated my fax modem up to a 56 but it’s still slow - I think it’s got to go to the old []. 
X: []
R: Well no they still... they say to you different numbers for different speeds but when you log on and you have a look at what you’re running at, you’re not running at 56, you’re running at like 33 and (even down it’s starts at 28) which is just... when you’re taking graphics up or looking at stuff it’s a bit slow. But it’s good (in the way it’s going), I’m not worried about it
X: Okay, what about shopping on the Internet?
R: Yeah, done that
X: You’ve had a go?
R: Yeah shopping... I’ve looked at properties, gone through Dixons... books, ordered books. I was putting in a cess tank - I’ve never put a cess tank in before and I was trying 
X:  it’s not the sort of thing you do very often
R: No, well I was having trouble trying to find someone in L that does it, cause it’s not the kind of thing (people do) in L. And I went to the bookshops and I had no luck so I tried my luck on the Internet. Types in ’Cess Tank’ - 52 companies. How does a cess tank work? Bang, I’ve got a working diagram of how a cess tank works on my PC in my front room and I went to print it out - there was a picture of how it works, how it comes in, how it goes out, how the weights is done, do you wish to order one. No more paperwork - two days later I’ve got it through the post. Unbelievable
M: Brilliant
R: Once you can tune in. But like you said - slow. The Internet’s too slow... you have to be on that digital system or it’s the end really. But even that’s not that quick
M: I had a fast one - but I’m telling you now - all I kept thinking is ’hhh it’s going to cost me a fortune’ [laughs]
[.]
R: Well, it’s getting a lot better - but like you say, I mean, my machine - the one I’ve got now - cause I’m updating it all the time is not even a year old and it’s out-of-date already - [explains history of his processor speeds] - now I’m in to Pentium II
M: Hh, pentiums the one now isn’t it
R: Well, Pentium’s just the name - I mean you can buy just as fast a machine but not called Pentiums - but they’re just the same thing
S: We only bough our PC two years ago now - and if we bought it now we could have top of the range
[agreement]
X: For the same price
R: Yeah but that’s ..
S: And it’s... the thing with it, it’s so fast moving you never know when to jump on to the 
M:  it’s worth nothing the minute you pay for it
R: But it’s not, it’s just a con because if you’ve got a machine that’s top of the range now, you say to the guy ’I want it expandable’, ’No problem, Sir’ says [the man] ’up to 120’. When you open the back up, all the slots are full. So, ’you told me it was expandable, I’ve got to buy an expanded slot... so it’s not expandable’ [.] And that’s the only con is that, once you start doing that, it starts running really slow. If you haven’t got enough memory or enough RAM or enough...
S: I was able to build on mine, so it’s actually gone up
R: Well mine’s gone up, but you can’t update the processor. You can put more RAM on and you can put another gig of hard drive on but if your processor’s running too slow...
M: That’s it, yeah
R: But there is one drawback on the Internet isn’t there - I’ve got a bug off the Internet. My whole machine went down and I had to format my hard drive. The whole caboodle. And now I’ve got anti viruses coming out of my ears and I try and boot up and...
M: They’re only as good as the latest virus
R: Exactly [.]
M: You didn’t want us to mention viruses did you?
X: No, [that’s fine]
M: Yeah, cause I got a virus from a friend’s machine, and I took it home and I crashed mine as well
R: I got mine a month ago and I’ve got the latest virus check up - because it goes... it does it and it gets all the new viruses? And it still got through
M: The people... the hackers do it for fun - they actually do it as a challenge, they don’t do it for another reason. Just let me get my hands on one! [laughs]
B: We don’t know who they are [laughs]
M: I wish you did [laughs].They do, they do it for fun. It’s like... they can. They’re clever.
S: But what you were saying earlier about, y’know, getting information - what would you prefer; to sit at home and look up all the information or queue up in the stores, go and try and find your goods, go and queue up, go and talk to the miserable old
M: You get bargains don’t you - you get good deals... on lights and all sorts of things, holiday resorts...
S: Cause I use teletext.
M: Yeah, I do
S: Cause computers are really an advance version of teletext isn’t it? Cause I use teletext and [laughs] I hate to admit it but I’ve used that QVC in the past [laughs]
M: No::!
S: I have
M: I can hardly watch it, it’s disgusting
S: There were these two things I bought and they’re brilliant. The two actual things I got are brilliant
R: They do some good prices on there don’t they?
S: Oh they do some brilliant, I mean 
M:  I turn my telly on and they’ve got this stupid jewellery
S: Oh yeah, no I’ve never bought any jewellery, but when they have some (other) things on there - for the kids I mean they have these magic pens
M: Do you watch it? [S and M laugh]
S: Only the late night ones [S and M laugh]. But y’know, I mean that’s the sort of... it’s going on from that isn’t it - from the home shopping on the TV to computer shopping that’s where I feel like it going - cause apparently Argos want to go that way as well
M: I think they should actually - cause they work that way (anyway)
S: Cause people don’t actually like going in there any more because it’s so crowded and trying to get to the books and everything. So I’ve heard - because our company’s just been taken over by the guy who used to run Argos...
M: O::h
S: He was saying about that as well - that they have to go via the computer now
R: It’s not very dangerous, y’know what I mean. I mean, I won’t buy anything off a small company. See, if you speak to the credit card company and you say ’Look if I buy something off the Internet, what kind of safeguards have I got?’ And they say to you... we’ll only kind of recommend to buy off the big companies. So if you buy off of like Dixons or someone like... a big company and if you’re having problems they’ll do something about it - but if you buy it off a Joe, cause I’m on the Internet, I’ve got a web-page. Y’know what I mean - so anyone can have a web-page, it doesn’t have to be anything big 
M: Yeah, but you can actually check the small companies because you’ll find that a lot of them are actually owned or subsidiaries of big companies anyway
R: But I’m not, I’m on the Net
M: No but a lot of them are -
R: Well, that’s probably the only thing I am actually wary of , if I was shopping
M: But you can check them, you can check them. You can actually just call up... I learned that if you call up a company you can find out what they’re linked to and who their main parent company is and if they haven’t got one and how long they’ve been in operation. Cause if they’re going strong ... But again it’s scary because currently you download stuff as well, and if you leave your modem while you’re out all day and you come back... somebody can go through all the system. Not good
R: Only if you let them. You have to give them access, cause if you segregate the hard drive
M: But if you’re downloading, a lot of the time
R: Yeah, well the second you log on, they know what you’ve got. The second you log on they know what PC you’ve got, how much gigs you’ve got. I mean, I know when my dad logs on to my machine within ten seconds I’ve gone through all his stuff
M: What? I don’t know how
R: [well the second someone comes in] you can just pick up their whole drive. So I can go in your machine, pick up your C drive and dump it in my E drive. In seconds. Then your whole drives [dumped out]. And later on I can go through it individually. But I can dump your whole machine into my... I mean you’ve got like six gigs
M: I’m coming to you for lessons
[all laugh]
S: That’s what scary about computers though isn’t it?
R: But you don’t have to let them - you have to give them access
S: No, I know but what I’m saying is that... for me, to think about computers is... y’know the thing about the credit cards - all that information. I had my credit cards stolen and they told me that my credit card was on the Internet within seconds
M: You’re joking
S: Oh yeah, they copied it and everything. And the really scary thing about what I think about the computer and about... I mean I’m not scared off the computer - I go to work with the computer or whatever - [I’m scared] because of the fear of things like that
M: No but the thing is... because I feel that way about credit cards anyway. Cos I watched The Cook Report - you know the little shops you go to - and they go shopping on your card. And you just go, like, for a packet of cigarettes and come back and find out there’s a couple of hundred missing from your card. But they do it sneakily - they do bits and pieces so you don’t notice
P: Who’s ’they’?
M: Certain stores. Certain stores - 
P: Do they get the information as you hand over your credit card?
M: No no no. When they swipe your card they also swipe it so they can get the PIN and what they do is get new new cards via post, brand new cards, and they put your number onto it
R: It’s easier than that. It’s easier than that. You can just get software, it’s less than fifteen pound. You buy software - you can scan one card and it just take a copy of it. So when I scan a [.] cause all the scanning does it takes what credit limit you’ve got. So you scan it through and it keeps a record of the scan and you copy that on to a blank card [repeats]. So you’ve got two cards, so the card is never reported stolen, there’s just two of them. That’s how you do it
M: You wouldn’t realise initially 
R: If they do it in-front of you alright. But in the restaurant they take the card away - that’s when they double swipe it. []. Plug it straight in the back of a laptop [makes swiping sound], you’ve got a double copy
M: Hh!
[.]
X: I’m not going to ask you to produce your credit cards
M: [] But I’m actually already very nervous about credit cards already
X: But do you think they... do you think the use of computers in this way makes that worse? 
S: Yes
R: No 
M: I don’t know
R: No it don’t because there’s so much security in credit cards. I mean they only get what you let them have. I mean you can send back your hard drive, you can just let them do one segment. It’s up to you what they know
M: Yeah, but what do you do with credit cards. If you do Internet shopping, as you do, how do you know that the person isn’t just an illegitimate company
R: Well that’s what I was saying. If you’re going to use the Internet you have to use the big companies. And all the companies are going to do is say ’We are part of this group’ and they’ll all be part of the same gang. Right now, it’s (open market) for everyone. I mean, you can buy stuff in America. [.] I think it will be more safer as things go on. Personal references, personal codes. I don’t think it’s that [dangerous]
S: I think whatever happens anyway there’s always going to be somebody that’s breaks in.. So whatever way it goes... But it’s... there has to be safeguards put in and it can’t just be... cause it’s a complete mess at, well not a mess, there’s just so much on there. [] So it needs to be tidied up and organised
M: It’s just trial and error [at the moment] isn’t it?
R: It’s too slow that’s why. When it gets faster. My wife uses it but she [.] it takes too long. She won’t log on, she won’t put the password in, she won’t go on the system. Y’know what I mean, she just wants to go on it, she ain’t got the time to wait for it. And it is slow. I mean when you’re downloading something, I mean if you want to get a copy of the file off the Internet. It’s so funny, if you’re copying 40 megs, if I was doing it from straight drive to drive, taking four to five minutes, on the Net it can take up to an hour. To do less than 30/40 megabytes, that’s a long time when you’re paying up £3 or £2 an hour
M: That’s what annoys me
R: Cos they can compress them and... but they don’t, they leave them in long form so it’s dragging on, the time ticking by, ticking by
M: Well, not only that, if you go though the... that’s an odd thing I find about the Internet - when I find files that I want data from, and I didn’t want all of it, I just wanted sections of it - it wouldn’t let me do it - so I ended up having to - I can’t remember how I did it but this guy showed me - I had to open a file in my disk and then literally cut and paste, cut and paste and it wasn’t the normal way I had to use special codes in order to do that. But generally it will let you read all the information but it won’t let you copy it and that’s all I wanted to do, I didn’t want to rearrange anything, I just wanted to copy sections. Cos it was something like 90 pages. I didn’t want the 90 pages, that’s big money for me, I just wanted like the equivalent of 4/5 pages. So again it doesn’t direct you, so that if you want a shortcut key to just pick up certain data, - because again, not being nasty, but it’s all money. At the end of the day, it’s milking us for phone time or whatever.
L: It’s a service though isn’t it?
M: Yeah. I mean but you pay for the service anyway. So you shouldn’t be caught in this situation when you’ve got an extended time and extended data that you don’t want.
X: Of course, in America the local phone rates are very different rates are very different to ours
R: Yeah, free
[laughs]
M: Yeah well it’s the same in [] [repeats] It’s free. Cos it is free, it doesn’t cost them a penny. So they’re just ripping us off
S: But England is the highest anyway because even mobile phones are the highest - it was on the telly the other day - you pay more than any other
M: Yeah but you know every time you pay the phone bill locally you’re being ripped off
S: Yeah, well, oh yeah
M: Because it doesn’t cost them anything once you’ve got the []. I know that [laughs]. Checked it
X: Well in terms of .. well I mean if we think of .. this is like an infrastructure isn’t it? We use the telephone for this new technology. Should we get rid of local rates for telephones?
M: Definitely
R: Once competition comes in it will happen won’t it? 
R: And they can choose loads can’t they?
M: And they even do it with water and gas now. They’re starting to expand.
S: Yeah that’s right, yeah. 
M: But I think it’s a good idea in some respects because it means people start... we’re too complacent. I mean, that’s the problem with us in Britain. We’re so used to like, being impatient we don’t even like queues. So you get this attitude ’No, I don’t want to pay this bill, I’ll do it by direct debit’ which you trust in. You know, you don’t question anything. I mean... I do now - I got very impatient standing in queues. Not that I mind queues but I like look around me and think this is such a waste of time, I’ve got other things I want to do
R: Well, this is why the Internet comes into it’s own cause you don’t think.
S: But would it be like - home shopping - would it be like - I suppose they’d be different forms of shopping on the Net - is it like... the one that you see, well which I’ve seen on the telly is where you literally have got your shopping basket and you walk around the shop [laughs]
[laughs]
S: And everything’s like, wow [laughs]
[laughs]
X: I tell you what, we’ve got this portable here so we can have a look, and try it
All: [laughs] Yeah
[laughs]
X: So let’s have a look. Since you’re talking about…um, you know, um shopping
M: That’s really lovely graphics, look at that, I feel like we’re looking out a window
S: Yeah, that is really nice
X: So um, yeah you were just talking about the shopping basket, so let’s have a look at the, this is Tesco’s er service. Have you heard, have people heard about that?
?: Yeah I have
?: I used to know them quite well (…)
?: You don’t hear about Tesco much now
[problems with computer]
X: Hmm
R: Oh we’ll come back to that later [laughs]
X: What have you heard about the Tescos site? 
M: They were advertising [this] at Christmas weren’t they?
L: Wasn’t Boots going to do that as well? Weren’t they going to do it?
M: I don’t know
S: Cos they’ve started doing it where you can actually have deliveries, it’s all deliveries now
M: Home deliveries, yeah
S: They’re gradually all switching [to home delivery]
?: They are, aren’t they
?: Yeah
S: You can tell by the way they’re going
M: It’s habit, isn’t it? People mistrust what they can’t physically touch and see. That’s the problem
S: ’Are they going to send me all the bruised pears or are they going to send me the good ones that I want to choose?’ This is the thing [laughs]
M: But the things is someone like Tesco’s or Sainsburies or Marks’s or even Boots, you know if you’re really cheesed off, you take the product with you with your receipt to the local one and say ’Right, that’s it - I want my money back’…
?: Yeah, yeah
M: …or a replacement. Whereas with a company you don’t know (…) receipts or whatever, then you’re stuck with the product
L: Yeah, that’s true, that’s very true
M: Cos even QVC I don’t know, they alway say 
X:  Right here we go
M: …(…) send a guarantee on the delivery
X: So I think we’re alright, I think we’re in this time
S: QVC I tell you, you have no problems, if you don’t like, they will give you (…) if you don’t like the goods
X: Okay so (3.0) who’s going to have a go then
?: You should, you’re the one who (…)
[laughs]
X: Come on P, you do it
?: Go on
?: Play with the machine [laughs]
X: Alright (2.0) what do you think? So this is it, this is the front of the Tesco
P: Oh yeah
X: Yeah okay, left hand click this one
(2.0)
?: What is that, all bacon and everything. Do you just choose or can you look at it? Well you can’t look at it
R: So can you save your shopping list (…) make a copy and (…) into it every week
X: Ah yeah
M: You should be able to (…) the mouse down
P: Okay
M: This block, if you click on it and hold… lower, lower, lower. See this box…
P: Okay, yeah
M: …click once
X: Click on the box
P: On the left click?
M: Yeah (…) that’s it
P: Do I just keep, I (…) on the click?
X: No click over the one you want
P: Okay, so here we go, fish, right
M: Yeah you just click on it with the mouse
P: Okay, so (2.0) fishcakes? No, let’s have…
[laughs]
P: …let’s have the tuna
M: Yeah let’s see how good it looks
(2.0)
[laughs]
X: Okay, so this is what they’ve got
?: (…)
X: That’s not tuna is it?
P: No it’s rainbow trout
[laughs]
P: And tuna’s highlighted
?: And it gives a price
P: I wonder what (2.0) fresh trout will give us
(2.0)
P: Tuna (1.0) or haddock [laughs] And salmon steaks. Okay, so 
X:  Alright so 
P:  So let’s go
X: (…) you a product and 
P:  Okay let’s go for Tesco salmon steaks
X: Double click on that
P: Okay
(2.0)
X: Oh try that again
P: Yeah okay
(3.0)
X: Get onto the thing itself
R: Click onto the er, by the price
P: Okay
X: Try again (2.0) there. So now, Tesco salmon steaks…
?: Hmm
X: …has been added to your checklist 
?:  oh checklist
X: So if you go (2.0) to the checklist
P: Okay
?: Oh right, okay
X: Yeah? There we go
? They’re all the things that 
X: And they’re all the things that, we’ve been putting things in
?: And you’ve got a price on everything and (…) 
X:  Yeah that’s your price
R: What about delivery and stuff? Is that all (…)
?: Does it tell you special deals and the, in the week and…
X: Well you see, we’re not online now…
?: No
X: …downloaded the program to make choices, but you can, you can take your list and you can go online and it checks your list and tells you which products are 
R:  What so you can go online, bring off the stuff and then at your own leisure pick it, and then go and just er transfer it, so you’re online the whole, only for sending the data?
X: That’s right
R: Ah that’s quite a good idea
S: So you could keep that every week, just the one that you’ve downloaded?
X: They update it every month
S: So yeah but once a month you could download the whole…
X: You download it and then you update
S: And then they’ll update it for you once you put it online (2.0) Oh right
X: Yeah
S: That’s why I said, because then you’re not, because otherwise it could cost a lot of money while you go um (…)
X: Yeah so all this choosing
S: That’s much better because it can... otherwise it could cost a lot of money while you’re… 
R: You’re not restricted by the speed of the modem either because you’re doing it at your own PC speed. So you’ve only got to transfer data at the end of the shopping day
S: That’s right
R: So you’re eliminating the problem of slow modems
X: That’s it
M: So how about if you wanted four pound of um potatoes, or um anything…
X: That’s fine
M: Alright, go on [laughs]
X: Now where are we? Search, no go on you can do it
?: [laughs] No I don’t
?: Go on [laughs]
[laughs]
?: Go on
?: Alright then
X: That’s it. Now go over here
?: Right. I haven’t used one of these at all
X: What would it be? Yeah, go into that one down there and just click a few times on there, see if you find
?: What was I looking for? Potatoes
X: Yeah it will be vegetables, won’t it? So go, no yeah, they are vegetables
M: Yeah
?: Ah
S: Oh right
X: Garlic, herbs, you’re getting there (1.5) salad
S: Tomatoes
M: They’re not potatoes
S: I know well (…)
P: (…)
S: It sounds like tomatoes [laughs] 
X: So you choose which one you want
S: Okay
X: And then (2.0) go to it, click on it, yeah, yeah, so click, and then double click and it should (1.5) yeah, it’s gone in. So now you go to your checklist (1.5)
S: Right, so it’s forty-nine pence a pound
X: And you’ve ordered one pound
S: One pound, okay right
X: Go to the checklist now
M: So what if you wanted to order more
?: So should we change it
X: No you do it in the checklist. Go to the checklist
?: (…)
X: And now, it should be here somewhere. Just go down to find it. They put it in alphabetical order
(4.0)
S: Oops
X: It’s tricky that rollerball isn’t it?
S: Mmm
?: So you’ve actually used it, I hear
X: [laughs]
?: You’ve actually used it
X: Yes I have
?: And was it good? Were you impressed?
X: Yes, yes, it’s good
?: And the food was okay?
S: I’ve got the tomatoes
X: Okay
?: And was it in date, like proper date, not (…)
S: Sorry so what are we going to do, we’re going to change the quantity here?
X: Yeah that’s it, that’s it
S: Right okay
X: Or I think you do it, where do you do it?
S: Oh yeah (…)
X: So then you can say how many (…) go in there (…) and then put in how many pounds you want
S: Four
X: Er return. And there it does, you see
S: Oh it’s clever
M: The only thing is, it’s talking about bagels not tomatoes [laughs]
P: Yes, it’s on bagels
S: Oh is it?
[laughs]
P: So should this not have been changed (…)
S: So what happened?
?: You had (…)
S: I thought I had my, wait a minute I’ve got to get my tomatoes
X: You didn’t click in it I don’t think
S: Oh:::
X: See you’ll have four packets of bagels
[laughs]
S: That’s right, I need my tomatoes to go in it now don’t I? Tomatoes, loose - there we go
X: Now go down and…
M: Yeah now you can change it there
S: Now change the quantities, so 
M: Oh that’s really easy
S: It is (1.0) oops
?: Does it have bookshops, things like that? Bookshops
X: Oh yeah well we’ll look at a bookshop
(…)
[laughs]
?: So now we want four
X: Four pounds (…) there we go. So that’s done four pounds of tomatoes, loose, forty-nine pence a pound
S: Ah brilliant
?: Excellent yeah
S: Oh that’s really good
R: I like the downloading it first, that’s the, that’s gonna be the crunch
?: What?
R: See you’re not on the Net while you’re doing it, you don’t like 
?:  Right okay so it’s not costing you anything
R: No not a penny. Download the package (…) once a month to update the prices
?: (…)
R: You know, you’re sitting there talking aren’t you? What do you want? You know (…)
?: Yeah
R: That’s a really clever idea
?: Yeah
R: I’ve not seen that on anything else
M: I mean, do they automatically give you the special prices, all the specials, or do they actually ignore it unless you request it?
X: Well what you can do is when, you can, when 
R:  Must have like a special a week or something you can just highlight it
X: No well what you can do it you can either, you can either just send your shopping list in and they’ll give it to you at the special price and only charge you for the price of er taking the discounts off, or you can actually check online, so you get your shopping list and you say to it, go through and tell me what the specials are and how much they are, and then it gives you the real price to your shopping list. Of course this is just like the default prices, the 
S:  When you’re online would it, even though you’ve chosen your one it might, would it maybe say “would you be interested in this particular sort of…” 
?:  Oh right
X: Ah you can, you can do that. You can 
S:  Like is there a (…)
X: Yeah you can ask for sort of, when you’re searching you can ask if there’s any specials in a given category and then it’s
?: Excellent
M: So as long as you say what area it is you’re looking for (…)
X: (…) tell you automatically
M: So in the summer if you’re looking for a cheap barbecue
X: Yeah right
S: Cause I hate food shopping so that would be perfect, yeah
P: How do you use your reward or discount card?
X: You, they actually won’t let you use it unless you’ve got one, and then it’s automatically logged, they log your…
S: Oh right, your number
X: Yeah
?: Right it’s brilliant
X: Yeah, or they give you one, I didn’t have one…
?: Very good
X: …so they gave me one
?: Ah
X: I’ve now got one
(2.0)
X: So yeah, so that’s Tesco, you see that’s…
S: That’s very good, I like that idea. The fact that I wouldn’t have to go to the shops and barge through with my trolley and get annoyed
M: How much more you’d spend (…) oh I can recover that next week and next month, before you know it you’ve got them knocking at your door saying “I want your couch”
[laughs]
P: (…)
[laughs]
X: Alright, I’m just going online now, I hope
[laughs]
M: What other stores, have they got things like World of Leather and you know (2.0) MFI?
X: Shall we try that? Let’s see if we can get it
M: Just out of interest because they’re the sort of things that you really do want to go in and do
R: You’re dialling up now are you?
X: It’s just dialling now
M: Cause the thing is you can’t take it with you anyway
?: (…) but things like clothes shopping I hate
X: Cause we’ve got an Internet provider at college
R: Oh I haven’t got one of them. So you’re not going, you’re going through a server?
X: Yeah (2.0) that’s right (…)
[conversation in background]
[laughs]
R: I tell it what to do and it does it for me
X: Okay, um right, so this is an Internet provider, but we’ve got various places that we’ve already put on here, alright, er Sainsbury’s, that’s a bookshop Amazon, oh Waterstone’s, shall we have a look at that?
?: Yeah
?: Yeah
X: Let’s go and have a look at that
S: They’re not doing very well thought at the moment are they? Waterstones
X: Aren’t they?
M: I don’t think many people are at the moment
S: No (…) They’ve joined up with somebody now haven’t they?
P: Dillons
X: Oh that’s right
M: Have they?
P: Dillons and HMV
M: Wow (…)
S: They got bought out
M: There is going to be a monopoly. There’s going to be about five big companies that run everything. Really
P: But they (…)
M: Really
X: Here we go. Oh I haven’t seen this one before (3.0)
LM: I think it has a search facility so it will just help you choose…
M: …what you want
S: Is it like um…
M: Cyber
S: …in the library, you know in the library you can do it either by title, by…
LM: Yeah
S: …author, or is it like that?
R: Yeah exactly the same, yeah
S: Oh right
R: But that’s only to its own supply though. You got a worldwide bookshop where you can go for second hand books and all that
?: Mmm
?: Oh right
M: So books that you can’t find on the normal shops
R: Well they only tell you what they’ve got in stock. They don’t tell you if they don’t keep the book. They only keep books in print
M: Yeah
R: So if you wanted an out of print book you have to go to an out of print department, which is another thing
?: There’s one on that one
P: So you can access every book that’s in Waterstone’s on there?
X: Yeah
[everyone talks at once]
R: Brilliant, it’s great, I love it yeah
(2.0)
R: But you can do it at 3 o’ clock in the morning whenever  (…) it’s cheaper
M: Yeah you’re not tied to, yeah but that’s the thing about shopping. If you finish work late (1.5) forget it, you’re going down to your Pricecheck’s, it will cost you an arm and a leg
X: Oh they’ve got discounts
M: Yeah
S: [laughs]
M: Wow, that’s brilliant
X: See if any of them (…)
M: Stop shopping
[laughs]
M: Stop shopping okay?
[laughs]
X: Sorry yeah [laughs] Somebody else take it
[laughs]
P: So if it doesn’t have all the titles on it, how would you get more titles? 
X: Oh these are just modern culture ones, so (…)
P: Oh I see, I see yeah
X: But you can er, I don’t know
LM: (…) thing at the bottom here (…)
X: Oh here it is
LM: See the box at the bottom
X: What do you want to, what do you want to hear? What do you want to hear about?
S: Um, let’s do…
?: Fay Weldon
[laughs]
P: Fay Weldon
(2.0)
S: And would it give you, would it give you a little
X: Let’s try it, let’s see
P: What does it say?
?: What does it say
X: Can you read that?
S: [reads aloud]
M: Wow. That’s brilliant
?: Yeah
(2.0)
?: Mmm
X: Here we go (1.5) ah there we are
?: Yeah
P: Oh my god, that’s excellent
M: She’s a very busy writer
X: She is, isn’t she?
M: A very busy writer
X: So shall we have a look at one of those, what about this one?
S: Yeah, have a look at it, cause I’d like to see if it gives you an option (…)
X: That’s right
P: Is it different prices depending on how fast they get the book to you?
X: Here we are. £4.99
S: Standard delivery ten to fifteen days in the UK, that’s why your waiting (…) your book
LM: (…) will be there in three or five days if they’ve got it in stock
X: Oh right. And so then we can add this to an order, look we can add that to our order
?: Mmm
R: Does it allow you to read the back to find out what the…
S: Yeah I was going to say
X: Well that’s what I was thinking
?: (…) the blurb
?: You’d think they would have like a little bit about…
?: Yeah
?: …about the book
X: Ah so here we are, so we’ve got an order form now, cause we’ve ordered one of the books
R: Well you’ve ordered one of the books. We’re not paying for it
[laughs]
?: She is
S: Did I choose it?
?: You started
X: In the interests of the study, will someone provide their credit card?
[laughs]
?: You can have mine, it’s got no money in it
[laughs]
X: If it’s me I’m not going to (…)
S: Could you just put like, say you wanted to look for a book on um…
X: Yeah let’s try that
S: Let’s have a look, stress-related something. Something like that
X: Okay let’s try that
M: Stress management
?: Yeah
X: Well I’ll just put ‘stress’ in there
M: Yeah
X: Let’s see, yeah, title, search now
?: (…) subject heading like you would have in a library
M: Yeah cause I would have thought that ‘stress’ comes into so many different forms that…
X: Here we are (…)
S: …stress plan, that sounds good to me
X: Okay, we’ll add that one to our order then
R: So this has all been while you’re online. You not going to be able to (…) download this
X: No, that’s right, this is all online. I don’t see, I mean they (…) download the catalogue couldn’t they?
R: Well (…) there’s big enough hard drives around nowadays
X: Yeah (2.0) This book will be sent by, blah, blah. Add to order. Ah we’re doing well
S: Mmm
X: Got two nice books
M: Isn’t it amazing how something like that can do so much?
S: I know
M: No it really tickles me, it’s tiny isn’t it?
P: Magic, it’s just magic
X: There we are, so now we’ve got two things in here
S: No but it is amazing really
X: Now what about the reviews, do you reckon you can 
P:  Oh yes
M: Yeah
P: Let’s have a look at some of those
(2.0)
?: Oh what’s happened to Fay Weldon?
X: Oh
P: Yes, Fay Weldon’s gone
M: We forgot about it when we looked for stress
P: Yeah
X: Oh I thought it would…
M: We had to pick one of the stress books and (…) see what it’s (…)
P: (…)
M: If you go up and we’ll pick one and then we’ll see if we can see the review on it
(2.0)
M: Cause we want a review don’t we?
X: We do. Oh look and there’s where you put all your information in. Delivery address, credit card address
S: Like an account application isn’t it?
X: Yeah
M: We want to see (…)
X: Bookseeker, order, diary (2.0) what’s this? Club (2.0) Shop, write to us, help
S: Help [laughs]
X: I can’t see where the reviews are, that’s interesting
M: Got to be up there somewhere
LM: Go home
X: Go home?
[laughs]
LM: Go to the home one cause I think that might give you a (…)
X: Well it’s not on the order form is it
M: Maybe if you pick one it might give you a different screen
X: Oh how do you get to the home page? Oh this is it
[laughs]
X: Okay
L: How about if you wanted to get some research papers, if someone’s already doing some research in America or…
X: Germany
L: …Europe somewhere
X: ‘Reviewers Reviewed’
(3.0)
LM: Yeah is that a book though?
M: No that’s reviewing the reviewed
X: Let’s see shall we?
(3.0)
X: Or it’s reviewing the reviewers
M: Does that mean they’re telling us about the critics or…
X: Book of the week, Ruth Rendell
P: We can’t actually find a review of the book that we ordered?
X: No that’s the, that would be…
S: That would be much better wouldn’t it, just the back of the book like you can…
X: I think we can do that
M: Yeah because they could scan that
X: I think we can do that you see on this one (2.0) let’s compare Waterstone’s to an American one
?: Oh Amazon?
X: Amazon
?: Yeah
?: Mmm
M: [reading aloud] ‘First time visitors click here’
P: [in American accent] ‘We are reading (1.5) Alice Hoffman’
[laughs]
X: Read the first chapter
P: [laughs]
X: You can download the first chapter
(2.0)
P: You don’t need to buy the book do you [laughs]
X: (…)
R: (…)
X: ‘Books of the day’(2.0) ‘Amazon.com’, ‘Essays’ (2.0)
S: (…)
[laughs]
R: (…) ain’t very good at all
S: No
R: (…)
S: It’s alright if you know the book and you can see the back of it and you know that you definitely like it, but if you don’t, what’s er…
R: Well I’m trying to find a book for my daughter and I 
S:  What about all them, do they not, I’ll tell you who’d have to probably go on there is the (…) World of Books and all of that, you could have on that on there couldn’t they
X: Okay it’s got customer reviews, so you can actually send a review in yourself…
M: Mmm
S: Ah that would be good wouldn’t it
X: …if you read a book
M: Yeah that’s very good cause it’s (…)
X: Yeah
?: (…)
M: (…)
X: Somebody else will have read it
M: So you got to go in the bookshop, read it and then go back and order it
X: No but somebody else will have done it
P: (…) so you’ve got
X: So…
P: ‘Click on a book title’ (2.0) If you, if you, to read the full review click on the book title
(3.0)
X: A hundred, ‘One thousand and one ways to be romantic’, there we are, we’ll have a look at that
?: [laughs]
?: I want a copy
?: [laughs]
X: ‘One thousand and one more ways to be romantic’ [laughs]
?: [laughs]
?: I want the biggest one
X: Where’s the review though?
(3.0)
X: Ah here we are, so we get a synopsis
?: (…)
?: Yeah
S: Yeah
X: Okay, and some ideas. ‘I think he’s outdone himself’. Alright, so that’s the review
M: [in American accent] This book is awesome
S: That’s what you get in World of Books or (1.0) you know those things, that’s what you actually get, you get um a bit of the book and a little bit about what it is and then you get people, whether they liked it or not
M: Mmm
?: (…)
M: [reading] ‘This book has enough ideas to keep you in a romantic mood for years to come’
[laughs]
X: What about Loot?
?: Oh yeah
X: Shall we look at that?
?: Yeah
?: Oh yeah they’ve got the free ads paper on there
M: (…)
S: Ah
(3.0)
M: ‘This book is really a godsend for women’ [laughs]
X: Go on, who’s going to have a go. I’m doing it all
M: He should, he’s been too, he’s too quiet (…)
X: Okay. ‘Find it with Loot’ (2.5) Anyone looking for anything?
(1.0)
S: Um
X: Second hand?
M: Second hand rich man
[laughs]
M: I just want his money
[laughs]
S: Arm chair, Parker Knoll…
X: That’ll do
S: (…) back
(2.0)
S: ‘Clip ad’
M: Hold on a minute, if you, if you, if you have a look at something that’s offered (2.0) um because you know what’s regular with Loot, when you order something or phone them, by the time you get through to them it’s gone
X: Yeah
M: So how, what happens (2.0) cause if you’re going to spend your time 
X:  It’s the same
M: …on the Internet and get through and 
X:  Here we are, (…) armchair, Parker Knoll
S: Oh
X: There you go. So if you were interested in that you can (1.5) clip, you put it on a clip pad
?: Mmm
X: And then you go through, find the different ones that you’re interested in…
S: And then decide which one (…)
X: Yeah that’s right, so let’s say, oh well
?: (…) as you goes through
M: So it just saves you getting the paper. So you’ve still got to go through the same system of phoning up
(2.0)
R: Yeah (…) number
[laughs]
M: I thought it was like the shopping one when you order it
P: Because the people that operate it are not necessarily on the Internet are they?
X: No, they’re just individuals
S: Yeah
M: No that’s what I thought, if you click on it you would get through to the person to find out whether they’ve still got it
P: (…) be on the Internet
X: No that’s right
S: Cause that would limit the (…)
M: (…) assume they’ve got it in there
X: Oh here we are. So then we can, then you
P: (…) Loot
M: Yeah, that’s true
P: Cause then (…) accessing Loot, it’s not accessing the people (…)
R: (…) not true though, cause you’re still (…) and if you’re going through a phone (…) phone them, they only just have to be rung on their phone wouldn’t it
?: (…)
R: You could do that. You have got a point
X: Later on, if they could put their, if they were online they could put their Internet address
R: They wouldn’t need to, would they? If they’ve got their telephone number there. You could just click it and it could actually phone up
M: The only thing about this is that if somebody’s using it just before you to get into a specific thing, if there are any holes barred like you have to wait until they’ve finished or whatever. Because I know with like offices if somebody’s on that particular package or file, you can’t access it until that person has closed it
R: Well and they have problem with servers don’t they? If like he was going…
M: That’s what I mean
R: …through a server, if you’ve got a lot of servers going through sometimes. Like when I phone up the Internet I’ve never have that problem directly
M: No but..
R: But it’s only when you’re going through like a college or a server system
R: Yeah
M: Yeah, if somebody’s already logged on
R: Yeah, that’s because it might be full up (...) well as far as I know, I mean I don’t know that much about it. But I’ve never had any problem but I don’t go through a server
M: So it’s like a switchboard with loads and loads of ways of getting in - it’s not just like two or three extensions
R: There’s so many different companies aren’t there? I mean there’s America Online, isn’t there. There’s lots of different companies offering you the service and they’re all using the same (...) they’re just different servers giving you that option
S: But you see with that - that can only get better
R: Well it’s not bad, I mean in the last five years
S: No, but you know (…) that’s the way they’ve been doing it. I mean that’s quite good now. I can imagine that just getting. I mean that Waterstone’s has to be improved actually [laughs]
M: It may be that we just don’t know how to look it up
S: It could be but then that’s wrong, you should have a... 
M: It should be user friendly
S: I though that was a very good idea getting other people to write in about what they thought [were good books]. I thought that was a very good idea
X: Yeah
R: I still think Tesco’s is the best one I’ve seen on there
?: Yeah
R: The fact that it’s downloaded is going to make all the difference to everyone…
?: Yeah
R: …I mean if you get a sixty megabyte machine, you’ve got loads of free space so you can pick up that, download it and if you didn’t want it, just through it in the bin again. (…) that can only be - what? Thirty, forty megabytes, so that’s like nothing. So that would be er, even with the Loot you should be able to download it each week
X: Or daily
R: Or daily even, yeah. But that would be easier cause then you could set your own (…) browse, I like the idea, that’s the first time I’ve seen that. Because everything I’ve used I’ve had to stay online. I’ve not been able to download it and browse at my leisure then go back online
X: And the actual program itself is sent on a CD so you don’t have to download the program (2.0) initially. Because that would also take a lot of downloading time
R: (…) it’s running on a disk isn’t it, I mean you can get (2.0) quite a lot on there. That’s only um a spreadsheet basically with a few pictures, so (…)
X: Well what about that, I mean um (1.5) it’s sort of, I mean it is just a spreadsheet as you say. I mean wouldn’t you like to see a picture of the shop, and the products that they’ve got and stuff?
P: Yeah, exactly. I thought that’s what we were going to get
R: (…)
P: You mentioned about that shopping trolley
S: Yeah it’s like 
P:  I thought we were going to see the product
S: It’s not like (…) it’s like um, you’re er going through er the aisles... 
M: Mmm
S: …going through the aisles, it’s like you’re pushing it but actually you’re not there, so you just see the handles with the hands on. That’s what I’d seen anyway
R: Like a rough drawing?
S: No, no , it had graphics
R: I mean if you think about it every single tin of beans looks different - if you’re going to do a perfect scan 
S: No I’ve actually seen it…
R:   it would take ages to download it wouldn’t it?
S: No I’ve actually seen it. It’s not a perfect scan, no, no
R: But it could be (…)
S: But it’s just normal computer graphics and you just walk through the shop and you come to the grocery 
R:  Do people get in your way and stuff like that?
[laughs]
[end of first side]
M: The kiosk shopper is the same as the person who walks into the store. They have Point Of Sales and that’s where they make their money. I mean, when you go in to buy a loaf of bread, they make sure that they put jars of jam, marmalade, cheese spread, because when you buy the bread you think ’Yeah, I’ll have some of that (…), yeah I’ll have some of that (…)
[laughs]
M: Before you know it you’ve actually bought twenty quid’s worth of shopping when all you wanted was a loaf of bread
R: That’s exactly right, yeah
M: So at the end of the day, the kiosk - when you’ve just got a list of things it takes away that dynamic…
X: Yeah
M: …so you aren’t tempted in that respect
L: And also, if you don’t know, I mean it’s all okay if you eat er the same food and the same meals week in, week out. Now if I want to now eat a guava, I’ve heard that guavas are nice but I don’t know what they look like. I mean, and if it comes up, it doesn’t appeal to me, I have no concept of what a guava is, what the texture is, what it tastes like. If you see it split open like a beautiful M & S guava or something…
[laughs]
L: …you go ’Mm, that looks delicious, I think I’ll just try that’. I think that you’ll need the graphics for it to be appealing 
R:  You’d have to have it on disk though wouldn’t they? They’d have to, you’d have to have a disk then wouldn’t you?
?: Yeah, yeah
R: You’d have to have a disk made up with the store layout which you run off your CD-ROM…
?: Yeah
R: …which gives you the video footage of somebody miserable with a trolley. Yeah you’d move across and you’d use the graphics on the CD, rather than using the graphics through the modem (…) cause you’d just be there forever. So you could speed it up. So that would actually work if you were to combine that with a CD like they do with games
L: Well I think that you’d need that to sell the product
X: Well they sent the program on a CD so they 
R:  So they could do it. They, cause I mean CDs take up what sixty, six hundred megs don’t they, I don’t know (…) that’s easy, do that for a store. I mean games take up (...)
M: But they already do that in-house with this machine thing
X: Right, right
M: They already have the facility because they already, that’s how they do their stock checks (…)
R: So you’re probably, so you probably wouldn’t have to go on (…)
M: (…) so they know
R: Yeah, I mean I’m wrong on that one. You’re quite right, you could have what you wanted and it wouldn’t take up that much memory
M: No. Yeah, so I suppose they’ll do that eventually. But seriously they’re going to lose vast amounts of money
S: If they…
M: If they 
S:  just do it in list form
M: Yeah 
S: If they (…) yeah
M: Some things like Cornflakes…
S: Not that I’m worried about them losing money [laughs]
M: …and Lurpak butter and things like that. That’s different because it’s format, it’s standard whatever. But there’s things like (1.5) you know (2.0) the ones you were talking about, guava or something like that that you’ve never experienced before that you might want to look at. Fish
L: And it could limit it, you could kind of get boxed in and you could just go about your, you know with blinkers
M: Yeah 
L: And it’s only actually when you go down to the shop and you try it and you think oh well I do like it, I don’t
S: That’s right
L: I think you have to know that first don’t you?
S: That’s right. Cause I would do what you would do. I’d quite easily do that every week, go in and just get everything (and say) that’s Monday, that’s Tuesday and then every now and again I think god we’re getting really boring here…
?: Yeah that’s right
S: …and then you have a look and see that there’s a different flavour sauce for this, or if there’s a different this or oh look, I’ve not seen them, let’s give those a go. And how, you couldn’t do that on those lists
?: No
M: Yeah but on the same token, the cooking sauces that um, what’s the, Chicken Tonight,  there’s loads and loads and loads so there’s got to be a list in there that’s got sauces
R: (…)
[all talk]
M: (…) I go shopping every week I buy the same meats and…
S: They could have menu of the week
R: Yeah that’s right
M: …and I just buy different things
R: (…) pick all the stuff, how many are you feeding? Five - what are you cooking? Sausage and (…) bung it on your list
S: Do you know what, you know those Sainsbury’s, actually I’ve just thought of something [laughs] got all excited [laughs]. They do that um, they do that advert and they’ll say ’This is what you need’. Now, have you gone into the shop and tried to follow it, oh where do I find that, oh god now where the hell is that one. And you’re in and out of the aisles, you’re everywhere. Now wouldn’t it be a good idea if they were to say menu offer, because sometimes they do really nice ones don’t they? And all you’d have to do is click the button and they could automatically do the...
X: That would be good
P: And order all the ingredients for you? That’s good
S: Yeah wouldn’t that be a good idea?
[laughs]
S: (…) I’ll mess it up then when I cook it
X: I think Tesco’s should have come and talked to you before they produced the program
[laughs]
?: That’s a very good idea, that is
L: Yeah that’s a very good idea. But also maybe you could cross-reference as well and say, if you like Cross and Blackwell baked beans and sausages then you’re likely to like this which is a similar product which is what we’re just relaunching now, whatever, and you know, so that’s the only way that I think that you would actually be able, well, or one of the ways in which you would meet that means
M: (…) otherwise, they will, they’ll lose money
?: Yeah, yeah
X: Well, with these ideas that you’re talking about, they could introduce some of those aspects 
S: Oh yeah
M: (…)
S: I mean that menu one would be easy wouldn’t it (…) just click on the icon, that’s the menu I want, can I have all those. And you could, you could always take out bits that you’ve got already, you know you’ve got…
?: Sure
X: Yeah that’s easy
S: …just (…)
P: How many people (…)
M: That’s hard to gauge because everybody’s different. Some people eat enormous amounts…
R: [laughs]
M: …and some people eat small amounts. So it’s like some people would buy Menu Master and think somebody else is a pig
P: (…)
[laughs]
S: Yeah 
M: So that’s very difficult to gauge because more is less, less is more
?: (…)
R: (…) two, that’s not bad
[laughs]
R: I’ll eat two packets
S: It’s like when you get pizza, and you know it always says one to two, you think that’s right
M: What it means is one
[laughs]
S: And we all know that, so when you (…)
R: (…) 
[laughs]
S: Well you’d get to know that though, exactly as we’ve got to know Pizza Hut’s ‘one to two’ is not going to do really two people at all
X: No
M: Not if you’re eating with a man who would go ’Thanks, where’s yours?’
S: [laughs]
L: Then they could set it up for you, they could have a criteria where it might be A - E and A would be what the average person eats…
[laughs]
L: No seriously...
R: Big bellies, small bellies
[laughs]
R: (…)
?: Are you likely to eat (…)
[laughs]
M: But there’s a whole world out there, if they really want to go for it they can start doing high energy foods, low fat foods and so they could, and list it all under that, I’m sure they could…
S: That would be another really good idea. Oh yeah that’s an excellent idea…
X: (…) sorry
S: No sorry, I was going to say that’s another idea. Say you’re on a low-fat diet or something like that, you could choose your shopping and then, there could be a thing on there [laughs] I should get a job…
[laughs]
S: …there should be a thing on there where you click on the icon, and say substitute with low fat ones
X: Yeah, yeah
S: So, like, say you’d chosen sauces and all this and that, and then you say, click on an icon and they’ll choose a low fat home and cooking sauce. And you could choose the, do you know what I mean?
?: Yeah
X: Very good idea
M: (…) so they might want gluten-free, egg-free…
X: Yeah right, right
?: People use that service already
?: Yeah they will do
S: Yeah, so
M: You should be able to click on ‘egg-free’…
X: Yeah right
M: Bread, pasta, cakes
P: Because one thing you’re lacking on the computers is if you’re buying a tinned product or a packaged product turning it round and looking at the ingredients (…)
M: Yeah
S: Yeah, e-numbers and the sugar
P: …see what is in there
M: You will probably find actually that the more people use it, the more developed they’ll get 
S:  Oh definitely
R: It’s just the speed
M: If they’re selling so much it will be warehousing
R: It’ll be…
M: [laughs] It won’t be supermarkets, it’ll be a warehouse, that says ’chuck that in, chuck that in’ you know, so hopefully maybe they’ll get rid, start eliminating (…)
R: They’ve sorted it by, they’ve probably thought about it I think (1.0) by doing it on disk, downloading it onto your hard drive is going to make the difference
S: Cause they’ve actually thought that people are going to, it’s going to cost them money to actually…
?: Yeah 
S: …to look (…)
R: And it’s so slow. I mean it can be really slow down through the modem and (…) But you can sit there and do it during the course at no cost to yourself…
S: Mmm
R: …and then wait until the evening when it’s cheap rate…
M: Yeah
R: …if you’re a bit tight for money, you know, wait until the evening when it’s really cheap. And then how long does it take to send data? A couple of seconds you could do that in
S: And saving petrol for going in to the shops
M: How many supermarkets are on there?
X: Well so far just Tesco
M Just Tesco? So Sainsbury’s, Mark’s, Iceland
R: They’ll all going that way
X: Sainsbury’s are going to do it soon
M: Oh are they?
S: They need to because they’re losing money fast
M: And Safeway. Because Safeway are another one on the Tesco...
X: That’s right. They’re looking at it. But yeah, yeah. So have Tesco stolen the march on the others here do you think
?: Yeah
?: Mmm
M: I think that’s a very smart move, yeah
R: I don’t think it makes any difference it just gives them a little bit of time
?: Yeah
R: Once it starts picking up
?: It’s true, it’s true
M: Well, they’re pioneers really, they’re spending the money
R: Yeah, they’re the ones who are (…)
M: Alright, somebody else will just (…) oh that’s it (…)
R: (…)
[laughs]
M: So they become market leaders. I’m so impressed. Because I thought someone like Marks’s would do that (1.5) yeah because they’re so busy, I mean they’re (1.5) one of the most popular supermarkets. Because it smacks of (1.0) snobbery 
P: Yeah
M: So you find a lot of people, even people that can’t afford it will go in Marks’s and say ’I bought this in Marks’s’. I know people like that (1.5) Hence I don’t go, I’m a snob, an inverted snob [laughs]
S: Why would you boast about going to Marks and Spencer’s?
M: Oh you’d be amazed (…)
S: (…) all my shopping in Marks and Spencer’s
R: It’s just a shop
[laughs]
S: (…) the low-fat chocolate biscuits [laughs]
M: (…) 10p breads, 5p breads all sorts of things, they sell off things really cheap
P: Who do?
M: Sainsbury’s. All of Sainsburys do that
R: Is that with or without the rats?
M: No, no. Half an hour before they close on a Saturday they literally...
S: Yeah but they don’t do that anymore because of Sunday. They don’t need to
M: Yeah (1.5) swines
S: Cause you don’t get…
M: Swines
S: Cause you don’t 
M:  they do do it with sell-by dates if it’s the day they do it and you know, you’ve got at least three days
S: Yeah
M: You know, cause (…)
P: Can you get that off the computer? How would you know that your bread is sell-by date (…)
M: They wouldn’t send it
R: Well they wouldn’t send it if it’s out-of-date
P: Cause it would be, er (…)
S: But what if it’s one day? Because don’t you always go to the back of the shelf to get the one that’s the…
M: I always do
[laughs]
S: I used to work in a supermarket when I was young so I know about the rotation system, so I never go to the front I always go to the back
P: Yeah
S: And that’s where you get two days extra life. It means a lot in out house, two days extra life
R: It wouldn’t last two days in my house
[all laugh]
P: I go shopping in gloves, I really do
[all laugh]
M: I do that in the freezer as well. I’ve got the first three (…) that’s right
S: But are we going to get that from the supermarket on there?
X: No, you wouldn’t, you wouldn’t get that sort of control
R: I wouldn’t be interested in it, it wouldn’t appeal to me anyway, that control
S: I’d like to have a (…)
M: That’s the whole point. Knowing that you’ll get good quality goods
R: Cause you just don’t, like you just put it back in the box, when the man comes (…) 
M: It’s like that hamper thing isn’t it, you pay all year round for it, you get it and then you think ’Ooh I hate that spam. and I don’t like pork sausages’
S: That’s why I won’t do it because I don’t like anything in it [laughs]
M: But this is different you choose
X: What, do you see any, I mean, you know, er lots of positive points about it, do you see any dangers in this sort of (…)
M: Well, again, it’s the credit isn’t it? a) people are going to get into debt because obviously they’re going to overspend…
X: Right
M: …and  b) um (1.5) well that’s it because the shops can’t really lose money can they because you pay for it (…)
S: Because you’re more wary though aren’t you when you’re going round and your basket looks bigger, but when it’s just a list on the computer…
M: Yeah, that is (…)
R: But you’re going to get a running total aren’t you? You’re going to get a running total
M: Yeah cause you know what your budget is, don’t you? I do
P: It’s another nail in the coffin for the corner shop though isn’t it? 
?: Yeah
S: It is
M: Yeah
P: I mean the huge power of the supermarkets. And also the power that then, the people with the access to that, and if supermarkets are going to close down, and people are going to shop on the computer, people without computers, who can’t afford computers, maybe older people are going to lose out. They’re going to lose out on their corner shops and lose that ability to go shopping. People who enjoy shopping, people who enjoy going round shops
R: That’s not going to stop me (…)
M: But I enjoy shopping so ... 
R: (…) worry me in the slightest is it, I mean
P: Fine (…)
M: No but that’s true actually when you look at the actual interaction
S: Yeah
X: Right
M: …and not only that the availability for a) poor people b) for people that don’t believe in, don’t have TVs and computers and things
?: Yeah
M: And there’s a whole world of people, not just old people, disabled...
P: I think for disabled people I can see this as a boon
(1.5)
M: No, no , no , no, no. Because I know people…
?: No, it’s true
M: No, there’s carers that I know that, a shopping expedition is a big deal for that person
P: But that’s a different issue though isn’t it? That’s a different issue
M: Because, but it’s a social thing, it’s exciting, they’re going shopping and you take them in a wheelchair
S: Mmm
M: So there’s that side of it
P: I accept that but people who cannot get to shops…
M: Yeah
P:  (…) that could be (…)
M: Yeah. Oh it’s a double edge sword. In one respect it’s good but it’s also the worry of, the thing I don’t like is um, the fact that it’s antisocial. I really resent that because I know...
S: But that’s the way society’s going
M: No I (…)
P: (…) choices. It’s not, it doesn’t have to be
S: No it doesn’t have to be, but that’s the way (…) feels it’s going
M: Mmm, because people are obsessive. My son had a Nintendo and within eight months I put it on the wall outside. I literally, I didn’t care who took it (…) because I had the whole year, he wouldn’t go out in the summer. Friends came, he literally, the door knocked and three little boys stood there and said ’Does (…) want to come rollerblading up the market?’. He said ’no’ and slammed the door, he was fuming because they’d taken him away from the machine
S: Mmm
M: Every meal time was a trauma. And when you think of adults who aren’t socially (1.5) um able to do that, because there’s adults that are naturally shy or prefer not to go out whatever. I mean it’s like people that are very very obese (1.0) it’s another excuse not to walk out the door ’I can do this here’. I mean I’ve watched programmes about things like that too. So that agoraphobic... so it becomes more and more of ... I’m sorry but I look at
P: No that’s true (…) psychological problems in the way (…)
M: And it’s no point saying, you can’t blame the machine. It’s just nature
R: What you just said about the (…) same with my kids on the computer all the time
M: I got rid of it
R: And I stopped [his son] using it. I said you’re only allowed to use it for a certain amount of time now. Same with the television (…) but that’s up to the parents isn’t it really
M: Yeah but it doesn’t work like that. Because I know with me, um when I’m not at home I’ll say to them right like they’ve got homework or whatever, there’s things they need to do…
R: Yeah
M: …or, they’re allowed on my computer because they do all sorts of stuff on there, graphics (…) so they show me and I give them tasks
R: Mmm
M: So I said ’right go ..’ and I’ve got hundreds and hundreds of pounds worth of encyclopaedias. I think I’ve just finished paying. And I tell you something, I tell them right ’pick a subject in there and study it, I don’t care what part of the world it is, and I want you to write in your own words what you thought about it’. So they use the computer, but then I make them do it by hand first, because of their handwriting cause you know. My handwriting’s terrible because of the keyboard - I’m so used to using the keyboard when I write. People say ’What’s that?’ and I have to say ’I’m sorry’ and then I’ve got to write in block. So I don’t want them to experience that problem - but then there’s not a lot of people out there that realise it until it’s too late. But that’s not even discussing children - cause they’re getting it at school, even if they’re not getting it at home. What about adults with problems? Who are shy, or they feel inadequate, or... they become more and more (1.5) you know
S: Mmm
M: Because they don’t necessarily not have money, so they may become more and more…
P: Yeah, it’s an insular society and that’s, people not being able to adjust to one another is what leads to things like road-rage because they don’t have the skills now to cope with…
M: To interact
P: To interact with other people within society. We’re losing it more and more. People become more and more insular, closing their doors, sitting at their computers not going out. And I think that is a very worrying trend
S: Yeah I agree, very much so
M: It’s not us so much, it’s the next generation
S: It is, it’s people can’t interact with each other
P: They don’t know how to talk to each other anymore. I mean, people used to meet at shops, at stores. People used to always meet at the markets
M: I had friends who used to find guys when they were shopping. They’d say, ‘you know a man from his basket’ and I was like…
[laughs]
M: No really, you know, if they don’t buy the right stuff (…) 
P: That’s true
[laughs]
M: Darling, I (….)
[laughs]
M: No, but you know, so there is that whole world of it. So yeah, that is worrying. But then it’s not to do with Internet, it’s generally. You know, friends of mine download photographs of guys all over the world, cause they’re gay so they’ve joined this gay club on the Internet (1.5) graphics, my god (1.0) oh my god. But you can (…) anything. You know any film star, any politician with their naked body or
R: Yeah but you can still, you can still (…) I have stopped them. You can, you can um, I mean, I only let them use certain stuff. I’ve done it on my machine. They can only view the stuff that I feel is suitable
M: No but you can actually see what you want to see. That’s what I’m saying, it’s not to do with children - it’s generally. So really, it’ll get to the point where everything going to collapse out there - people will get unemployed because the shops are closed.  It’s already happening because of the large stores. So there’s a social aspect. And there’s a financial aspect. We ’re all going to become Communists
L:  When there’s technological change this is the same argument, this happens all the time
R: Yeah that’s it
M: But it has happened, it has happened already
R: We said that about the cars, we said that about the aeroplanes, we said about the combustion engine
M: No but computers have affected social relations
P: But all those things have affected society in that way. And every one of them is a good way
?: Yeah
R: But it’s gonna go (…) there’s nothing going to stop it
P: I suspect you’re right
(1.5)
X: Well could, could the government regulate it in any way
M: No, absolutely not
R: I’d love to have a discussion on that one. I mean where do you begin? I don’t think they can do it. We’re talking about a phone line. They’d have to tap everyone’s phone line
M: There’s countries that do. Believe me. There’s countries that do (1.5) already. They tap into everything because they’ve got special equipment they can tap into anything they want. I mean, mobiles are more at risk than normal telephones
P: A high percentage of phones in this country have been tapped (…) apparently
M: Exactly
P: Um (1.5) and they’re listening to them (…)
M: Yeah
P: I mean, they’re not very interested…
[laughs]
P: …but they can tap in to anything they want. And we’re not aware of it
(1.5)
?: (…)
[laughs]
P: American companies, I mean they’re looking for, industrial espionage of whatever
?: (…)
[laughs]
P: (…)
?: Yeah when I get onto that Internet and I see that my ideas are all there
[laughs]
M: Espionage goes on (1.5) 99.9% of the time
S: I see that 
M:  Just ask the tea-lady, forget about asking the staff
S: You know about what you were saying, the interaction…
P: Yeah
S: I see that at work already because our shop used to be a thriving, busy shop 
M: Mmm
S: …and um, I work in a photographic shop up in Euston, and it used to be a really busy hive of activity
P: It’s the Snappy Snaps one is it?
S: No, no KJP, a big huge shop you know just on Drummond Street
P: Oh yeah
S: And it used to be a hub, hub shop, you know, lots and lots of, and you go in there now and it’s dead. And where we actually, it’s upstairs the phones are continually ringing and ringing and that’s where I am. Ring, ring, ring and you can’t 
M:  Isn’t that stressful?
S: Oh god, oh yeah. And you can’t have any, we used to have um interaction between each other in the office, but because the phone continuously rings because people don’t want to come in anymore, they just want to use the phone
M: Mmm
S: And now e-mailing and we’re about, and it’s all gone, you know, we don’t have (…) 
R: (…) via ISDN (…) eh?
S: No (…) we’re not that advanced yet. They will be soon, though
M: Yeah but (…)
S: (…) people don’t come into the shop anymore
M: (…) you know like (…) I notice banks do it now, where you just can talk and they can see you and 
S:  That’s right (…) Internet banking (…)
M: But I don’t mind that, it’s (…) interacting with a physical person and it’s not um graphics or anything else, it’s like (1.0) watching another person
R: That’s there now though, you can use that now
M: Yeah
R: All you got to do is get a (…)
M: No what I’m saying is (…)
R: Well, it’s not the Internet, it’s the phone line, cause (…)
M: Well I know you need a phone line
R: But they’ve got it through the phone line haven’t they? 
M: Mmm
R: But you can do it through the PC now. You’ve just got to buy the package, the software
M: But again it’s coming away from human contact which is really, I don’t agree with
R: I don’t see the point of it, I must admit, I never see the point of (…)
M: I don’t like (1.0) um using machines all the time. I mean. if I go to the bank I deliberately don’t use the cashpoint, I go to the desk
R: Yeah 
P: Yeah
M: And because (1.5) it’s not fear or technophobia, I actually love machines. But it’s got to the point where I feel a) the person working behind that contact needs human contact (1.0) and it’s because of the machinery that gets faster and faster and faster, and before you know it’s, it’s like a production line. They’re like bang bang, bang, bang, bang, bang, bang, bang, bang, bang and there’s no thought, no. So you’re, I don’t know, I just feel everybody’s becoming very soulless
R: I don’t even think of it like that. I mean my job
M: Mmm, but yours is interaction
R: Cause I’m always out opening people’s front doors when they got locked out, changing locks. So when I go into the bank I don’t care who I see (…) go in there do my business and get out
?: Yeah
R: (…)
M: (…) But when the machine’s chewed up my card or it’s taken it off me or you know the, or sometimes you go in there and I can’t remember my PIN number 
R: Yeah that’s right [laughs]
M: I’ve had so many PIN numbers it’s not true
R: [laughs}
M: No really I’m embarrassed. So now I’ve, my bank asked me at Christmas ’Do you want a new PIN number’, I said ’Forget it’. They have my name up in the bank that says ’idiot’. I write it down but I don’t remember
R: (…) I’ve done that loads of times
S: I never go in to the bank anymore I do all mine by phone banking
M: I do direct debit where I have to. But I still go in and pay
R: I like phone banking
S: I love phone banking
X: Would you like, what, would you like the Internet banking to, I mean they’re just starting the service
R: It’s the same kind of thing as phone banking though isn’t it at the end of the day
X: Yeah
R: There’s not much difference. I’ve looked at it cause I’m on the TSB anyway but
S: That’s what I am as well. It’s a brilliant phone bank
R: Yeah I really like it. When you try and get like, trying to get served in there, it’s a nightmare. You still can’t do bloody cheques on the Internet, you know, so…
[laughs]
M: See what I mean about computers
[laughs]
(2.0)
X: Okay (1.5) well er great. Are there any issues (1.5) that you want to pick up Liz?
(3.0)
LM: (…)
?: (…) the tape
[laughs]
?: (…)
X: Is there, er (1.5) are there some products that you can go, I mean we’ve talked about specific products, but what about something like clothes shopping?
(2.0)
P: How can you? You need to try clothes on don’t you?
M: Well, no because you do it by mail order anyway and whatever happens you send it back if you don’t like it or
S: I’ve not used mail order
M: No I have done and I won’t any more because of that 
S: Yeah
M: You get the wrong shoe sizes, the clothes don’t fit right, there’s so many things
S: And then you forget to send, or you don’t forget, you think oh I’ll send that back and (…)
M: And you end up having to pay for it
S: Um clothes shopping’s not such a good, I do um,  also with the food shopping I’m very fussy with my fruit and that does worry me
R: Oh I’d love clothes shopping. That would suit me to the ground. Extra large everything
[laughs]
P: (…) and you have to have a friend come and say what you think I look like (…) and you’re away
[laughs]
?: It’s true
?: It’s a good idea yeah
?: It is though, yeah
S: (…) really honest (…)
R: (…) you could scan it to your friends, just send a picture of it over the Internet
P: It shows you what you look like in it
M: The only thing with that is you can’t see the dress of the fabric, you get this stiff board thing, so you’ve got a bit of a tummy like I have, it’ll be all (…) you get home and it’s just like (…)
[laughs]
M: …sack of potatoes with a draw string you know
[laughs]
M: So, again, you don’t get that natural…
X: You can get technical imitation, well I know that there’s a machine being developed which is a 3D scanner and you go in, in your underwear 
S:  Yeah I’ve seen that
X: …and it scans you to within 
R:  It must be big
[laughs]
X: …0.6 of a centimetre
[laughs]
X: It’s big
[laughs]
S: No they did that didn’t they to show the change in shape of the human figure. I watched that
X: Yes, but they’re going to be able to download that on to a smart card then you’ll be able to see your figure...
S: You can have your hair done as well
M: How embarrassing. Every bulge. O::h
X: That’s right
[laughs]
S: You could have your hair done, I mean can’t you? See what hair styles...
?: Oh yeah that’s right
M: That’s the funny thing actually, we were doing 
S:  Fifty po::unds, that’s for a basic one that costs. And you can have your glasses, see what sort of glasses, sun-glasses or whatever glasses suit you. You can go to (…) and get that one
?: Yeah?
S: So yeah…
M: Fifty pounds?
S: No I don’t know about that, but the hair one’s fifty pounds
M: I was going to say
S: I know. Because my friend tried it. She went in thinking ’Oh great I ’m going to see what hair styles suit me now’ and she went in and they said ’that’ll be fifty pounds for the basic’ and she said ’Okay I’ll come back another time’ [laughs]
M: Ye:ah. Never
S: Instead of just saying that’s far too expensive, we all, you know, we always do that don’t we. ’Oh right. Okay then, I might try that later then.’ What are they going to do? [laughs]
P: You can’t barter either, presumably. Can you?
X: Er well…
P: Or can you?
S: Do you do that at Sainsbury’s then?
P: Ye::ah
[laughs]
P: (…) somebody who went and bartered at every shop he went to on the high street. Like Dixons and that. And nearly everywhere he went he got money off something
M: I got fifty pounds off my washing machine
(2.0)
S: Oh
M: I argued with the guy, I said ’For god’s sake, I’m poor. I need it’ and he said ’Well you have to buy it then innit’ - this was in Camden - and I said ’No’ I said. So anyway I walked by and I came back and I said ’Anyway that’s got a scratch on it. I want that one’ 
[laughs]
R: I wonder who scratch it!
[laughs]
M: It had one on it!
[laughs]
M: (…) well I said keep that one for me. So he went back and he…
S: Got the old keys out
R: (…)
P: Can you barter on the Internet?
X: Well, not with the Tescos sort of service (2.0) But it does take away that side of it
P: It’s the human interaction, I think, ultimately
S: Yeah
R: But there’s still a big demand, a lot of people don’t really want that
P: Fair enough, fair enough
R: So I mean, you know, I can see what you’re saying. If I was on my own probably you’d think ’Oh yeah’. But I’m, because (…) a job where I’m meeting people (…)
M: You’re probably fed up with people
R: I’m quite happy to just... 
M: Yeah
R: I mean I was looking for a property and it was just absolutely fantastic. Over the weekend I must have looked at fifty, well (2.0) probably sixty properties (1.0) all these lovely pictures and I never saw one salesman
M: Yeah
R: I thought I like that one (…)  copy that. I like that one
S: That’s not a social interaction
R: That was so good because I picked the ones I wanted, I made an interview to see one, and there was no (…)
P: (…) estate agents
S: No I was going to say that’s a pro, not having to meet an estate agent [laughs]
R: You know, you were looking at…
M: That’s good
R: (…) and when they guy’s going to you, “well you know, there’s not many things on the market” (…) well I saw thirty-three of them
M: Yeah 
R: You know what I mean
P: That can be empowering
L: (…) what you’ve all been saying, because there’s a difference isn’t there? Because there’s a difference between what you’ve been saying is what, you just go for the product, then the product is there and if you’re shopping at Tesco’s that’s the product, whereas you’re talking about the process, you want the whole process and they’re completely different. And that’s what, and I think that the people that want to go for the process need some therapy [laughs] (…) no, no, I don’t mean that, but I think they’re looking for something else 
M: Yeah
L: And whereas you just want to get from A to B, you’ve got your job, you’ve got your kids, you’ve got the house and you want that product and that’s it. And I think it’ll work for those people who want the product
P: [to R] I think also that you enjoy the mechanics of it, don’t you, you love computers. I don’t particularly like them
R: No but the (…) was just unbelievable
[laughs]
R: (…)
P: No, I can understand it’s beautiful
R: But I mean, to be able to do that (…) that’s what I’m saying, anything you want
M: No, in some respects I think it is good, I think it is good. Personally I think for furniture, bulk buying things like that. But I do worry about the interaction
(2.0)
M: Cause there’s a lot of single mums out there that don’t have anyone. They’ve got small children, they’re probably getting agros from their exes, or no support. There’s a whole world out there that needs to interact and there’s nothing worse than going (…). Cause I if I go to a Butchers and there’s nobody there but me and a couple of customers, I’m leaving 
S: Mmm
M: Because to me that meat ain’t fresh. If it’s sitting there waiting for me to come and buy it. Whereas if it’s busy and I’ve got to queue for it I know I’m getting fresh meat. So that’s my logic. So I look around. And having said that, the Internet is obviously not necessarily not fresh
L: But that’s a good point as well. I mean, if you have got um, as there are, very many single parents, be they men and women and you’ve got maybe one or two children and you know and maybe you haven’t got time in the home for your child, or maybe your child won’t allow you for a couple of years to have your own time, to get on to and to select. I hadn’t thought of that. Whereas if you push your children out, you know the fresh air knocks them out, they’re happy. [] No no no no, no it does an it’s actually true and I hadn’t thought of that. So that might actually, it might not actually be equal access for everybody in that sense then
X: Right
M: Yeah but it’s not just that. It’s also the fact that if you don’t go anywhere, your children don’t go anywhere
?: Yeah
M: It’s a catalyst. Sorry
P: And food things you can taste, as well. Sometimes
M: Yeah, you get samples
P: They will allow you to taste them
R: So you’re the one that goes around biting all the...
[laughs]
P: In the deli, you go (…) cheese, oh very nice, can I have a taste?
M: Exactly
[laughs]
M: When I was pregnant for my last one I (…) out on kebanos, it was terrible I used to go into the counter, get my ticket, pick up about [laughs] six kebanos and eat them all [laughs] and then I’d get to the till and get really upset and the lady would be (…)
[laughs]
M: I did it every week after that until I had the baby, it was terrible (1.5) and she loves me [laughs] so that’s my (…) I suppose
X: Okay, well we’re running out of time, well, you know, thank you very much



Focus group 8, 11.3.98
C1C2D Women


Participants			N 
				A 
				Ju 
				Ja 
				M 

Comments			One participant unable to attend

Group bonded quite well, and relaxed and talked to each other fairly quickly. M talked slightly more than others, but generally everyone made roughly equal contributions (A quieter towards end). No major problems with technology, although took a while to get into CompuServe initially.

Average knowledge of technology. Both students had used e-mail and Internet at college, and thought e-commerce would be useful for buying books. A hadn’t really used computers, Ja had used her daughter’s, M had own?



LM: Right okay my name is Liz um I work at University College um in central L and my colleague Pete has just gone to the loo um and we’re doing some research about the Internet and computers and people’s use of computers um and also about the possibility of using computers for shopping um in the future lots of Internet sites have now set up shopping possiblities so I’m quite keen to find out your views about that and show you a few sites um this is Pete [laughter]
PL: Hi [laughter]
LM: I wonder if we can start by going round and if everyone can say their names and a little bit about yourself and tell me a little bit about um what if any use of computers you’ve had in the past you know if you’ve used one say where, if you’ve used one at work, if you have them at home that sort of thing so do you want to start?
N: Okay sure I’m N and I’m um doing a degree
LM: Right
N: And I work part time in a doctor’s surgery um we use computers at work to make appointments and um at college uh I don’t use the computers to write my work but I do sometimes have a look on the Internet if it’s stuff to do with essays
LM: Yeah, okay, great
A: My name’s A and I’m a nanny um I don’t really have much use for computers except for kid’s programmes on them um which I do use occasionally
LM: Yeah okay
J: I’m Ju I’m studying politics and I’m on the computer all the time [laughter] CD-Rom service and Internet, I’m not hooked up at home I’ve not got a modem at home but I use it while (…) e-mailing and stuff like that, information gathering
LM:Yeah
J: It’s very useful at the moment
LM: Right
Ja: Um I’m Ja um I don’t use computers, my daughter’s got one because she’s um doing er business studies at college and to me it’s all totally double dutch, I do have a go on it but I have to keep calling out ‘what do I do now?’
LM: So what have you had a go on?
Ja: Well I play solitaire on it [laughter] (…) um I mean I, well it’s just all, I did do a course actually when I was working at the L Borough Southwark and I got myself totally and utterly stressed out because we had to draw a line and I nearly had a nervous breakdown over it all but I mean I just couldn’t seem to get on with them but I suppose 
LM: Mmm, okay
Ja: If I used them everyday perhaps it would be different
LM: Alright
M: I’m M um I’ve got a computer at home but I’m not connected to the Internet and I’ve never used it 
LM: Right
M: But I hear a lot, a lot about it and I’m sure it would be very useful
LM: Okay alright well like I said um, we’re quite interested in this phenomenon of Internet shopping so I wonder if anybody can, has anybody heard of Internet shopping 
?: Mmm
?: Yeah
LM: Heard of any sites yeah?
?: Mmm
?: No
?: No
LM: Okay, so what, what have people heard of (.)um what have you heard about it,   could you think of any, no?
J: Books are sold through the Internet, I’ve seen sites with book selling but to be honest I haven’t ventured further than that, I’m too busy concentrating on my thesis at the moment
LM: Yeah, I’m sure, N, you said you’d?
N: Um, I’ve heard about people making up credit card numbers and putting them on to get free stuff [laughter]
LM: Right, okay um
?: Um, well I know that er Peter’s (…) I know he is on the Internet so I assume he’s advertising his club and anything else that’s likely to be connected with it and I know it’s good for information but I’m not sure about the shopping part of it
LM: Right, okay well um you can have a look at the computer and I’ll show you some of the sites that we found and you can tell me what you think of them (23.0)
Computer: ‘Welcome to CompuServe’
LM: There we go (38.0)
?: Did you see the um Newsnight programme last night it was talking about how computers that there are prototypes at the moment that understand colloquial English and respond to you in it as well
LM: Oh right
?: The way forward
LM: Did they say how far in he future that was?
?: He didn’t put a real time on it  but the technology is already there
LM: Mmm
?: It’s incredible isn’t it?
Computer: ‘You have new mail waiting’
LM: Ooh [laughter] (11.0)
?: It’s so time consuming isn’t it all this?
LM: Mmm it’s slow [laughs] (…) (20.0)
PL: You’ve lost your browser
LM: Yeah what happened to it [laughs] where’d it go?
PL: I don’t know
LM: (…) disconnecting (6.0)
?: It took me six hours yesterday just to send e-mail (.) through to two people
LM: Who do you e-mail regularly?
?: The government departments (…) get the information they need before they  
LM:   Right, okay and have you got any of your friends on e-mail?
?: No, no I don’t I don’t have time at the minute (…)I don’t have time to do it at (…) and I’m not connected at home so
?: My niece is on the Internet
LM: Yeah?
?: She’s nine years old and I just look at her absolutely like (.) dazzled I don’t know what, anything about it
LM: So you end up playing around with it?
?: Yeah, yeah
N: I find the e-mail useful, my friend went off to Thailand to teach English 
LM: Yeah
N: (…)  
Computer:   ‘You have new mail waiting’ N: (…) But then (…)
LM: Oh right yeah on the Internet?
N: Mmm
LM: Yeah well we’ll probably come up against (…) at some point (2.0) on some of these sites (8.0) right okay (2.0) now the few sites that I sort of had a look at are different kinds of companies who have spaces on the Internet um so if you, if anybody wants to have a look at something um we’ve got Amazon which is an American bookshop which has masses of, biggest kind of bookshop in the world and so they have an Internet page, Barclay Square is like a sort of virtual mall like a whole range of shops that you can choose from
?: Fascinating
?: Sounds good [laughs]
?: (…)
LM: It’s British actually yeah, it’s got sort of er, what’s it got on there, Thomas Cook and Argos and (.) CD Now is a music shop again it’s American, um Interflora, Legal and General we’ve got Loot on-line, Southampton Football Club {laughs]
?: (…) [laughter]
LM: (…) We’ve got Tesco as well which is one of the only supermarket that’s doing sort of you can buy your groceries  
?:   And then they deliver it
LM: And they’ll deliver it, clever?
?: Mmm, that’s good
LM: Er Waterstone’s, British version, Books On-Line and Which, the sort of consumer magazine (…) they’ve got, we’ve got an account with them and they download stuff (…) so what does anyone fancy and who’s going to do it?
?: [laughter]Loot obviously, first choice
LM: Oh Loot there we go
?: Let’s have a look at Loot
LM: Do you want to have a go?
?: Mmm (5.0) so what do I do, go into it and then what?
LM: Click on there
?: Oh there
LM: On there. Tell me what you think as it goes through (2.0)
?: Mmm (5.0)Useless isn’t it?
LM: It takes a bit of getting used to
?: I didn’t realise (…) (4.0)
?: That’s it on there
?: How do I go up again, push that aside
LM: You sort of move the mouse to (…)  
?: Oh right I see, oh yeah and then press that, okay say if I wanted to look up (.) I’m looking to buy a  
LM:   A car or something
?: Yeah a minibus
LM: A minibus [laughter] well I think they’ve got a search facility (2.0) er
?: Oh right yeah I see
LM: Search over here?
?: Alright then how about promotional free ad that would be interesting to see   because, let’s see how you would connect with the company, I mean if you’re just browsing and looking for something that’s easy enough isn’t it but I’d like to see how you placed your ad
LM: Alright (…) (6.0)
?: Oh right (3.0) oh I see (2.0) (…) can I just stick an ad in while  
  [laughter] (…) no, no, no, no
LM: You’re more than welcome to (…)
?: Go and get loads of phone cards [laughter]
LM: (…) put all your details, choose your own, which bit of the paper
?: Mmm the edition (3.0) 
LM: Oh right so you can oh right
?: Oh right, I see, so what area (2.0)
?: I wonder whether it allows you to choose more than one area (.) or whether you’d have to  
?:   Because Loot must be different in different areas than (.) obviously 
?: Yeah, oh right
?: L must be, what was it L Bed, Bedfordshire, Bucks and Herts  
?:   Croydon’s the Surrey one isn’t it though?
?: Mmm, Croydon, Surrey yeah it is worth doing as well
LM: It looks like it’s only one doesn’t it
?: Yeah it is only one paper
?: (…) Yeah
?: You can just (…) once you put your details in they will only allow you to send it to the one (1.0) um area?
?: Well they must have different, different editions in different areas (.)
?: Yeah but they have all areas in one edition haven’t they because when you open up an edition they’ve got like north L and west L and  
?:  Well maybe that’s why you have to put the area
?: But look can’t you, say you was going to sell a car you can put an ad in and then it can only go if it doesn’t sell you can only do it a couple of times can’t you as well
?: I’ve done my limit on my cars then [laughter]
?: I’ve (…) two cars up in a year [laughter]
N: How’d you manage that?
?: First one was no oil, no water and the second one last week it was no oil
?: Oh [laughter]
?: How ridiculous
?: Mmm got a new one now Fiesta
?: Very good ‘cos I assume this is what, if you phoned to the Loot they’d probably have some sort of screen up like there in front of them anyway taking your details you’re doing somebody else’s job aren’t you really [laughter]
?: What do you pay for the subscription to it?
LM: Well you don’t subscribe to this, this is free
?: Oh
?: What’s free?
LM: Well like I mean you pay by subscription  
?:   Once you’re connected
LM: Once you’re on the net like Loot doesn’t charge you to use their service
?: Right, so it’s a free facility once you’re connected
?: I thought that every time you sort of used it, it was like a phone call making a call
LM: Oh yeah it is like a phone call  
?:   (…)
LM: Yeah I mean we, we’re using the phone line here so  
?:   Right
LM: It’s equivalent to a local phone call
?: A local phone call 
LM: Yeah, so like  
?:   So if phone calls are 1p a minute at the weekends, so if it’s 1p a minute at the weekend is that what it’d cost you?
LM: Yeah, mmm
?: Oh good
LM: Sorry what was that?
?: So does that cost them money while we’re sitting here messing around with it then [laughter]
?: What by (…)?
LM: [laughs] I’m not sure they’ll get some money but yeah I mean we’ve arranged with them can we use your phone because we’re gong to be using it for you know however long
?: So for the duration of you having this up that is it’s costing you?
LM: Yeah and you can  
N:   Can you still use the phone at the same time if you’ve got it turned on?
LM: No
N: No
?: (…) that aswell [laughter] 
?: Do you think nobody explained to say there was going to be a (…)? [laughter]
LM: We’ll show you when you go out of this later there’s a little time button that measures, so you can with certain kinds of browsers you know you can look through different, you can use different kinds of organisations to get onto the Internet and the one that we’ve got here gives us a little time button that would say if we’ve been on for longer than ten minutes and you can work out what that will cost me (…)
?: Yeah
?: Mmm BT ought to (…) something into that and find out how much it’s costing (…)
LM: Yeah, yeah (.) so yeah shall we try something else anybody?
?: Mmm (3.0)
LM: (…) Go on 
?: Tesco
LM: Okay, anybody want a go at Tesco’s?
?: So do they give you a shopping list or something  
?:   Mind you Barclay square I’d like to see what’s in there
?: Yeah, shopping mall [laughter]
LM: Alright [laughter] okay
?: Clothes shops
?: Marks and Spencers [laughter]
?: (…) [laughter]
?: It’s funny ‘cos Marks and Spencers have got a, a website but they’re not selling anything 
?: Oh
?: Oh
LM: You can’t buy anything at the moment apart from maybe
?: It’s just information I suppose
LM: Yeah it’s just all about Marks and Spencers
?: I suppose what, could you order something like you know if you go into Marks’ and you see something and they haven’t got your size so you go over to the customer accounts, the customer services and they order it and they say well it’ll be in two or three days, so you can do all that?
LM: Well you can’t do it on the Marks website at the moment but that’s the sort of thing  
?:   No, but you can, you can eventually do that
LM: That eventually you could do
?: Yeah
LM: Yeah
PL: Yeah
?: And I suppose it would be handy if you was looking for the best deal in your car insurance and things like that wouldn’t it
?: Yeah
?: You know those sort of things so
LM: Absolutely yeah
?: So you’re the broker
?: Yeah
?: You’re the broker doing it
?: Yeah and as you say though it really does cut out a lot of, a lot of people going to lose jobs over this eventually aren’t they?
LM: Mmm, but then again they’ll need technical people to work the system
?: Yes but there won’t be that many people will there, I mean look how the work force now it’s sort of diminished into(.) you know, (.) they used to have sort of half a dozen people doing a job, only one person does it so (2.0)
LM: Yeah, we can talk maybe later about some of the changes if this takes off
?: (…)
?: It will won’t it, it will take off
?: Yeah it’ll be like videos  (…) I’ve grown up, I’m already grown up on it [laughter]
?: (…) [laughter]
LM: Well yeah
?: That’s it everything’s done by computer
?: Yeah everyone will have one eventually
?: Let’s have a browse round the shops then
LM: Okay [laughter] want a go?
?: No [laughter] not me, I told you I ‘m frightened of them I get somebody else do my dirty work [laughter]
LM: (…) solitaire [laughter] get a mouse you know
?: Can you (…)  
?:   (…) [laughter] (…)
LM: (…) where you’ve um, where you can like pick your destination, click where you want to go and that sort of thing and it will give you list of (...) and some prices
?: Mmm
?: Like if you was looking for a bargain holiday or something that sort of thing
LM: Yeah, they have last minute ones, I’ll see if I can find that in a minute maybe (2.0)
?: I wouldn’t fancy buying my shopping though I like to see I don’t even like sending anybody to get my shopping  I like to do it myself
LM: Mmm, mmm
?: But then again for people that are perhaps invalids who are unable to get out then that would be an ideal thing for them
?: Mmm
?: (…) fashion to come up [laughter] (…)
LM: You could try the a to z list thing up there on your left and see if there’s anything that takes your fancy (3.0)
?: She’s been  going to all the designer shops [laughter]
?: Is that what you want to see?
?: No no, but I suppose it would be ideal for getting a bargain as well, which was the cheapest
LM: Yeah you can get little um one of the things we’ve been looking at is the sort of programmes you can put on your computer that will, you ask them  
?:   I got Argos [laughs]
LM: (…) Such and such a CD you know, go and find the cheap one anywhere in the world  
?:  (…)
LM: (…) and it will  come up with a list for you
?: (…) Instead of driving around trying to find one
LM: So it might be an offer, say in the States (…)
?: Yeah but then again  
?:   Toys R’Us, I wonder if you could have got Teletubbies off of them, when nobody else could, off the Internet?
?: You couldn’t, you couldn’t really buy things I mean things are cheaper
LM: I don’t think so because the (…)
?: Mmm
?: You know in other countries aren’t they, because they say that obviously like cameras in Japan, but then again once, say you was to buy something like that then you’d end up paying more anyway because you’ve got tax to  pay at this end so really (.) is it going to be?
LM: Well the tax thing is one of the issues that if you buy something over the net, it hasn’t the regulation maybe isn’t there at the moment I mean I’m not really sure  
?:   Oh (…) getting rich then [laughter]
LM: Right, you know if I  
?:   So are things cheaper
LM: Well if I buy like a CD in the States then they’ll say it’s ten dollars and if you live in Europe we’re going to charge you three dollars post and packing 
?: Yeah
?: Mmm
LM: But like they’ll send it to my home address, I mean
?: Mmm
?: But it wouldn’t be ten dollars equally to the U.S. system (.)
?: No, but ten dollars is cheap isn’t it?
?: But that’s the thing though (…) wherever you are in the world (…)
?: And even if you spend three dollars to have it delivered it’s still less than what the price for the CD is here
?: It’s still cheap ‘cos the dollar is less, ‘cos a CD here is what fifteen ninety-nine,   aren’t they fourteen ninety-nine each
?: About two dollars to one pound
?: Well that’s interesting 
PL: (…) three CD’s delivered for three dollars
?: Mmm yeah exactly you’d do it that way wouldn’t you?
PL: Single postage stamp
?: Mmm, three CD’s (…)
?: That’s it, so what happens now?
LM: So the tax thing is like
?: Mmm, mmm
LM: I’m sure something will happen but (.)
?: Have they got a duty free shop on it? [laughter]
?: (…) wouldn’t it, yeah [laughter]
LM: (…) the duty free shop to end all duty free shops [laughter]
?: That’d be great (.)
?: Probably have to buy (…)  
?:   But then again
?: Or something before you could go into the duty free shop   [laughter]
?: But then again if they wasn’t using so many staff to sell the product then obviously   then their overheads aren’t going to be as much so they’ll be able to bring the prices down anyway and also prices are expensive because they have to  
?:   Shop space
?: Have people shop-lifting don’t they that’s why we pay such a lot of money for things
?: Mmm, mmm
?: If all it is, is if you’ve got it in a warehouse then you don’t have to pay for renting shops first
?: No
LM: Something like Amazon, the one I was telling you about the really big American 
[interruption as someone serves soft drinks]
LM: Yeah, they have a warehouse full of books and people who run around and pick them off shelves and put them in the post so
?: It does take a long time considering you’re paying for it (.) on the timer doesn’t it?
LM: Pardon
?: It’s quite a slow process considering you’re paying for the time that you’re on it
?: It’s quicker than the ones at my college
?: Mind you nobody   
?:   That’s how they make their money
?: Nobody would ever go out would they? [laughter]
?: People don’t do they? [laughter] That’s what you hear about  these  
?:   It’s nice to get out though (3.0)
LM: So what we’re looking at, Toys R’Us?
?: Yeah (…)
LM: So what do you think (1.0) what do you think of the site?
?: It’s relatively straightforward
?: Slow though, I think it’s quite slow
?: Yeah it is slightly (4.0)
?: So you’d click on something and they’d ask you for your details would they?
?: Yeah do it (…)
?: So what’s that?
LM: Playstation
?: Yeah
?: Must be a game, mmm
LM: Oh, try clicking on (…) I wonder why that’s not working
?: Oh it’s coming
?: Oh
?: What have I done?
?: It’s probably making an order for one now (.)
?: Thirty-eight ninety-seven, that’s a funny price isn’t it?
LM: Anybody know if that’s good or bad for Playstation games?
?: It’s probably thirty-nine ninety-nine  
?:   Nine, I think they are about that yes
?:  In the shop so it’s probably about a pound cheaper
LM: So what happens if you click buy (…)
?: You’ll be done again [laughter]
?: (…)
?: It’ll be added to your phone bill (…)
?: Did you get a new car then?
?: Yeah, bought a Fiesta last Friday (…) I’m a terrible driver
?: (…) Do we?
LM: Okay so there’s a security  
?:   Security thing on it
LM: Sort of warning on it, um
?: A security what, what’s that for?
LM: Well, do you want to turn it on?
?: I’ve got a Playstation, some of the games have got (…)
?: Do you want to not show this warning? (.)
LM: No, just click on  
?:   Just click on yeah
LM: (…) see what happens
?: That’ll be the game over
LM: But that’s just before you order though, that, that comes up (14.0)
?: So what happens if  
?:   If you don’t want it anymore
LM: You push  
?:   Should we continue shopping or should we all just
LM: Let’s have a look at the order form
?: New order yeah?
LM: (…) (2.0)
?: It’s very slow
?: Mind you, you’ve still got to go to the shop to see what you really want haven’t you
?: And then put your details  
?:   Yeah it’s (…) an example is it?
?: It doesn’t sort of like come up and tell you
?: This is a, this is a black top in size twelve fourteen sixteen and eighteen [laughter] press which one you’d like to order
?: (…) Actually accepts the form (…)
?: I’ve got it written on the table
?: What, where (…) now?  
?:   What’s going to happen, is that, is that, is there, look they don’t put the um charge on that
?: (…)
?: You’ve got tax down there
?: Oh didn’t it say including shipping?
?: Did it?
?: I think it’s said including shipping and tax
?: This should be based (…) Barclay Square (…) (.)
?: Account number, alright so, oh now it’s just telling you what’s accepted so which cards do they take, hang on, Master card (2.0) and Visa, that’s it (…) account number (…) ‘your account information will now be encrypted’ (…) (7.0) and that’s that
?: Mmm
LM: So how do people feel about ordering a Playstation there, like that?
?: It doesn’t tell you when you’re going to receive it, unless it tells you after you’ve put the order in
?: It doesn’t tell you much about the game either does it? 
?: No, courier, dispatched by a courier (…) seven days (…)
?: What else is on there? Let’s see what else is on there?
?: Yeah, if they’re doing something like that then they’ve got to do something about the graphics or  
?:   It gives us the name of the courier, which is quite good isn’t it?
?: (…) opportunities isn’t it?
LM: Yeah, yeah
?: ‘Cos I’ve actually, my  
?:   Could you print up a copy of that?
?: But I’m, my computer, I’m on it all the time so (…)  
?:   On your computer, (…) rings up of your e-mail that you’ve
PL: Yeah
?: You can?
PL: (…) Printer, I think you go to file
?: (…)  
?:   I think rather than that, the sort of an environmental point of view and not wasting paper [laughter] 
PL: (…) Print it to a file
?: Yeah, as soon as it’s  
?:   Or store it and save it in file, yeah
?: Yeah
?: But I just wondered whether you could, I mean you might want to leave it in  
?: No
?: No
?: If it wasn’t environmentally friendly [laughter] (2.0)
LM: Right, okay how about (.)  
PL: How about the Interflora, you’ve seen pictures of that
?:Yeah Interflora that’d be nice
LM: Yeah?
?: Mother’s day is coming up [laughs]
?: That’s true
?: I want to get my order in [laughter] thing is I can tell him what I want [laughter] I‘ve seen it on the Internet [laughter] (3.0)
PL: (…) [laughter]
LM: I ought to know better (3.0) right, you want to have a go?
?: Be nice to see (…) actually  
?:   No, I might mess it all up and order something, or something
?: Oh they’re telling you that it’s mother’s day on the twenty-second
PL: Oh
?: Go on you show us [laughter]
LM: You want to go?
N: I don’t mind
LM: Yeah, go on
?: Product range, oh right they say they’ll show you the different pictures according to the different (.)
?: Things
?: Yeah
?: ‘Cos it’s mother’s day
?: Oh, ‘you’ve been idle’
?: ‘You’ve been idle for too long’ oh
?: It’s disconnected
?: It’s disconnected yeah goodness me
LM: I thought we’d been quite active [laughter]
?: Right, so you haven’t spent enough
N: Um, how do I get back to whatever?
LM: Well, (…) connected up, no they’re all disconnect (3.0)
?: What do you do with the Internet, do you pay it a yearly thing or whatever how does it work?
PL: Well you see CompuServe that’s an, that’s an Internet provider that’s the company that logs you on to the Internet and you pay a monthly fee
?: Oh I see
PL: And then you get a certain amount of time and if you go over that time you pay again
?: And what amount of time do you get?
PL: You get (...) about ten hours a week per week or something like that you pay sixteen pounds a month (.) for that one, there are cheaper ones though
?: I was going to say
?: Mmm, and there will be sixteen hours for ten pounds  
?:    Won’t they I mean it’s like telephone companies they are cutting (...) ten hours a week (…) [laughter]
?: And that’s, that’s without adding on the telephone bill
PL: That’s right, phone bill
?: Oh
?: So (2.0)
?: So you’re paying for all your privileges aren’t you?
?: I know I’m ignorant do you have to buy certain things like a certain thing to click it like a machine on the side or whatever I mean I don’t know anything about it
PL: I don’t know, you mean, do you mean do you need a certain kind of computer to do it
?: No um (.)
LM: You need a modem
?: I think you’ve got to go for it and see what players they’ve got in there 
?: Oh I see
?: (…) To get onto the Internet
?: Oh I see, oh I got you, yeah
LM: (…) here, coming out of the (…) phone socket
PL: (…) Internet
?: Oh I see
?: It’s got the, you know like you’re sat on the end of the phone
?: Well it would be no good for me ‘cos if anyone used the Internet at my house I couldn’t stand not being able to use the phone
?: Mmm, that’s what I was thinking
PL: You can have another line put in [laughter] 
?: Yeah pay for another line on top of everything else
?: How many people do have two three lines in their house?
?: (…) [laughs] I think I’ll just go to Oxford Street, he’s got to be joking
?: (…) Yeah I do
?:I mean I was, I was BT then I changed to Cable now I’m changing back to BT  
PL:   Yeah, I’ve done the same
?: And my daughter said to me can’t we keep the Cable in as well and have two lines it’s (2.0) I couldn’t stand it phones ringing all over the place
N: How do you go down (…)?
?: What was wrong with the Cable that you noticed?
?: I think you go onto that arrow and then click
?: Well I haven’t gone back but I think I’m going to (…)
PL: It’s  40p for every (…) that you phone
?: (…) Go back up to the top of, go back (…)
PL: (…) BT
?:  See what you missed
?: (…) for? Gosh
?: I don’t think it’s any cheaper, especially with I mean I live in Dulwich
?: So’s that video shop
?: Uh, Cable and Wireless
PL: That’s Cable L
?: I was thinking about joining that (…)
?: But I noticed that say, say when you make a call and it was engaged and then perhaps you phoned again and it was engaged and then eventually you get through   well like I noticed on my bill I was charged for those engaged calls and I’m, I mean I know it’s  
?:   Well you shouldn’t be charged (…)
?: But what else am I, well that’s right, that’s right 
N: Oh that’s nice
?: And you know I, I think sometimes it’s best the devil you know than the devil you don’t, like with all this, with the Gas you can change over (…) so I’m going to keep with the Gas I’ve already got
LM: I reckon that should be bigger, shouldn’t it?
?: (…)
?: Oh we’ve lost it now
?: Oh we’re going somewhere [laughs] don’t know where
?: Possibly  
?:   Oh (…) look there, they’re showing you it
?: Oh I see, so it’s a bigger picture now (3.0)
LM: So yeah, what do you think of this?
?: I don’t know actually  
?:   (…)
?: I think it’s good
?: How much is that one?
?: Twenty-two fifty
?: Twenty-two pounds fifty
?: Oh look at that (…) flowers in it
?: And are there any more?
?: (…) they got
LM: Has it got more options or has it gone off?
?: Well there’s loads of, you can look at every single bouquet like that
?: Well you choose a different flower at the top
?: You choose your flower yeah
?: They give you a whole list of flowers and we’ve chosen jerbora so um  
?:   It’s all the bouquets that have jerbora in it
?: And then (…) about six or seven bouquets
LM: Yeah, so yeah, shall we look at what happens if you try and buy that one?
N: Okay (.)
?: How to order  (.)
?: Reckon you’ll buy these today?
N: Yeah 
?: [laughs] (…) (7.0)
LM: Ooh (.)
?: Your credit’s run out [laughter] you’ve been on the Internet too long
?: You’ve exceeded your limit
LM: Ah (.) I don’t think it’s happy (2.0)
?: So what happens at a time like that I suppose you’re still going to get charged aren’t you for that?
LM: [laughs] Yes I can’t, can’t get out now [laughter]
?: I’ll get it when they’ve got it really crisp [laughter]
?: You can talk to it
?: There’s none of this (…)
?: (…) Don’t have to
?: Mmm
LM: Well maybe that will have to be the end of our shopping session then
?: (…) well?
LM: Yeah, well
PL: No I think it’s er gone
?: (…)
?: (…) Crashed Internet, yeah [laughs]
LM: Well I think we can get out, yeah (…) okay look you see here what I was saying about the time on it  ?: Oh yeah
?: Oh right
?: Oh yeah
N: Can I have a look at Waterstone’s?
LM: Yeah um
?: (…) here, you know [laughter]
LM: You’d better be quick
?: Oh no don’t worry about [laughter]
LM: I’m concerned about their phone bill [laughter] (…) (1.0)
?: Will you reimburse them?
LM: Well yeah but [laughs]
?: Look
?: I didn’t realise we’d been on that long
LM: Twenty-four minutes 
?: Well there’s quite a lot of things
?: Interesting (…)  
?:   (…) carried away couldn’t you?
?: Yeah
?: You could get carried away
?: That’s, that’s (…)  
?:   I wouldn’t mind if it was somebody else’s phone bill [laughter]
?: (…)
LM: If we look at this Tesco one, this isn’t er Internet service
?: This is a nice background picture
?: Mmm
?: Yeah it’s Hong Kong
?: Brilliant
?: (…) [laughs] Right this is Tesco’s home shopping computer service, this isn’t over the Internet, you get a CD Rom and load it up (.) a program on the computer
?: But um, so what’s the point of that, is it a home delivery service?
LM: Yes, you can order it
?: How do you connect?
PL: You order on-line
LM: Yeah, you’d order by (…)
?: So, so you’ve still got to do through the Net
LM: Yeah but you’ve got all the information  
?:   But you could, first of all you can get your information ready and then quickly just 
?: Oh right, yeah
PL: You can fax it actually
?: Oh, that would be cheaper wouldn’t it?
LM: So for example if you go to the off-licence which is the nearest you’re going to have to a duty free shop um [laughs] and you look for gin it will list all the gins they sell
?: Oh that’s quicker  
?:   Now that’s quicker isn’t it on the CD Rom 
?: Yeah
?: Look how quick that was
LM: And, what might we want to go for, Gordon’s Special Dry L Gin (2.0) nice big bottle (.) right, click on that it should add it to my shopping list which is, I’ll show you that, I’ve been working on it [laughter] (…)
?: See what she’s ordered
?: A grand total of ninety pounds so far
LM: How much? [laughter] ‘cos I’ve been getting a bit crazy looking at all the things I’m going one day in Tesco’s
?: Mmm
LM: And then it should have it listed somewhere with all the other things I’ve
?: Are those your cigarettes, relatively cheap aren’t they?
?: What
LM: Camel Light’s, two pound ninety-nine
?: Ninety-nine
LM: Buy them in the supermarket (.) gin Gordon’s Special Dry L gin, 
?: Ah
LM: Twenty-two pounds fifteen (…)
?: So you still haven’t go to (…)
LM: No [laughs]
?: One and a half feet [laughter]
LM: So there you go, so you can build up a shopping list like this you can add and delete things, you can tell them how much you want of a given thing like fruit or veg   and then also you can use their searching facilities to look for different things you want and then when you’ve got your shopping list you can send off to them, tell them when you want it delivered, pay a five pound fee I think to have it delivered and as long as you’re in, it’s a two hour time frame then they’ll deliver it to you
?: That’s very good
?: Mmm
?: But  
?:   I
?: Sorry
?: Will they put it away as well [laughter]
?: I was just going to ask do they provide the CD Rom?
?: That’s what I was going to say I think they should give it away free with their Tesco magazine
?: Yeah
PL: Yeah
?: Really, I do yeah
PL: You just ring up and they send it free of charge
?: Oh they do?
?: Oh they do?
LM: You have to live in certain areas though
?: (…)
?: That’s very good I’d do my shopping like that
?: So it’s only quite small
LM: It started off in south west L I think
PL: No um sort of west L
?: Mmm
LM: But now
PL: It’s sort of gone round
LM: You’ve got it where you live haven’t you?
PL: Yeah
LM: It’s gone round sort of the North  
?:   Okay tell me something could you (…) printer, if you were going to fax it through could you only do it off a fax on the machine, could you not print the list
PL: Oh um no because this is a Windows programme you can actually send a fax through  
? :   Yeah I know you can directly from the computer assuming that you’ve got a fax (.) oh no you’d be connected up of course yeah, you’d be connected up to the Internet
?: It’s the same thing isn’t it?
PL: No you don’t need a fax machine
?: No but say you didn’t have the Internet but you had the CD Rom
PL: Yeah you could do it by fax
?: Yeah but assuming that you didn’t have a fax connected to your computer
PL: No you don’t need one   
?: You don’t need one
?: It would just go down the line
?: Because it’s on the phone line
?: Ah no but if you, if you (…) only had the CD Rom and you wasn’t connected to the phone and you wasn’t by your computer
PL: Oh no, oh yeah you’d have to have a way of connecting your computer to the phone line yeah
?: That’s what I (…)
?: I understand what you’re saying  if you had (…) separate from (…)  
?:   Yeah say like you, had a CD Rom machine and you got the CD Rom for Tesco’s and then you done that shopping list and printed it and then I‘ve gone out to somebody’s house with this printed shopping list and then faxed it through to them
PL: Right, well I think they might be able to handle that
?: Yeah
PL: Yeah
?: That costs next to nothing that just costs the five pound delivery and the cost of sending the fax doesn’t it (.) if you got the CD Rom through
?: But to be really environmentally friendly you shouldn’t use the fax [laughter]
?: Oh
LM: Well they’re going to have to drive it to you I guess, but
?: Yeah, what about the pet shop (…)
?: But (.) that would help in the long term because they would have several deliveries at once and so that emissions from his one delivery van will be less than all those separate people going shopping and back again
?: Right okay [laughter] you’re really environmentally friendly aren’t you?
?: Yes, you are
?: I was at a conference for two days on local agenda (…)
?: Mmm that’s very good
LM: Alright yeah so what did you think of the different sites? (…)
?:Yeah, slow though
?: I was quite impressed with them
?: Bit slow
LM: Mmm
?: I think I’d get a bit impatient especially if I was doing shopping on the Net or something I ‘d get really impatient with how long it took to find something
?: Yeah that’s why the CD Rom’s are actually better (.) I think
?: They’re quite fast aren’t they
?: Yeah, as compared to the Internet, I mean that was very quick wasn’t it for you to bring your shopping list up there and what you wanted to buy and everything and your (…)
?: I think the Internet will speed up
?: Yeah (1.0)
LM: Yeah any, what sorts of things might you be tempted to buy over the Internet or would you? ?: (…) shopping
?: I’d do my, I’d do that shopping, that sort of shopping definitely
?: Oh I enjoy going round Sainsbury’s
?: You could order books
?: Are Tesco’s are the only one (…)  
?:   Yeah books would be good, books are hard to get that aren’t in your local bookstore like from Waterstone’s yeah
LM: Yeah Waterstone’s  do a thing where if they’ve got it in stock it’ll, they’ll deliver it in three days and if they haven’t then they’ll say two weeks and they’d have to order it from overseas and it’ll take longer
?: Good
?: That’s good (1.0)
LM: And do you think there’ll be sort of, which areas, is this is just going to take off be big who’s going to like it and not like it?
?: There’s not enough people with the Net yet I think for it to be so big (.) not enough people connected  
?:   Is it expensive to get onto the Internet?
LM: Um
?: Sixteen pounds a month you were saying
?: You’ve got to have all this stuff to get onto it in the first place, haven’t you
?: Oh right to buy a modem and that
?: Yeah
?: A hundred, a couple of hundred pounds
?: That’s what’s going to take the time isn’t it, who can afford one of those in one hit?
?: Yeah but I’d do it if you could just, if you had a favourite store i.e. Marks and Spencers or something and you could get a CD Rom on it you know so you can, to put in your computer and do it that way (.)I’d do it
?: (…)
?: (…) yeah and then fax it without you know I know it’s not environmentally friendly if you fax it [laughter]
?: [laughs] Sorry
?: No but I mean that is you know, that’s quite easy enough  to do, I would do it if Sainsbury’s done a CD Rom like that and I would definitely take advantage, definitely without being connected to the Internet, I think with the Internet it’s a bit slow, I think that personally that puts me off if you know that all that time that you’re waiting to get into it you’re incurring a bill (2.0)
?: Yeah I think that 
?: Yeah I think they need to improve things in that way
?: Mmm definitely (.)
?: Make it faster (3.0)
LM: Okay
?: But it’s time saving isn’t, that you don’t have to spend two hours in the supermarket or whatever or even get up and get out there
?: (…)
?: If you were stuck in doors for the day and you couldn’t get out for one reason or another but you really needed something it’d be really handy
?: They must have minimum charge though mustn’t they, they must have a shopping minimum of ten pounds or something before they’ll deliver it
?: It’s five pounds to have it delivered so you’ve got to really put the weekly shop on it haven’t you?
?: (…) ?: Yeah but if you didn’t drive and you took the cab there and back that’d be the cost of a cab anyway wouldn’t it (.)or something depending on how far they live
?: But you’ve still got to do the shopping
?: Aswell yeah that’s what I’m saying  so it’s better really (…) because for five pounds it’s nothing
?: Especially if for five pounds if they’re going to drop it to my doorstep and put it away for me [laughter]
?: Well you couldn’t pay somebody five pounds to do your weekly shopping  
?:  No, you couldn’t
?: Could you and bring it back could you and bring it back it’d be an insult (...) a guy do my weekly shopping for me, lug it all back, find your own mode of transport
?: Two hours of work isn’t it
?: Yeah, yeah and all the rest of it you couldn’t get them to do that for a fiver (.)
LM: I think Sainsbury’s are starting something similar
?: Are they?
LM: So [laughs]
?: (…) Sainsbury’s (…)
?: But I wonder if (1.0) their special offers will still be, I suppose they would be although they wouldn’t obviously be on the CD Rom because the offers change all the time but if you order something that was on special offer I assume that you would just get it at the price, or would you get it at the price, no because they couldn’t do it
?: No you’d get it at special offer
?: Yeah  you’d have to wouldn’t you ‘cos they couldn’t change, yeah because things would go up eventually anyway wouldn’t they
?: So you’d get it at the standard price   
?:   Yeah, whatever it is in the shop
?: So you might lose out that way and then
?: Yeah
?: You wouldn’t get your reward points necessarily
?: You probably would  
?: You probably would because  
?:   Yeah
?: Of paying for it they probably have all that (…)  
?: You’d get the multi-buy stuff
?: Yeah
?: (…) wouldn’t get the stuff that’s been written on
?: Yeah, no not on the stuff, I didn’t mean the stuff (…)
?: Well I, I wouldn’t do my shopping that way 
?: Wouldn’t you?
?: No
?: But you enjoy going shopping though
?: No I hate shopping  
?:   I love going shopping
?: I mean I don’t mind going clothes shopping, yeah fine, but to go food shopping I cannot stand it but then I like to see what I’m buying personally I wouldn’t like someone to pick out (.) the piece of steak I want or the, whatever I want
?: Yeah
?: I want to do it myself
LM: What about if you want a tin of Heinz baked beans or if you want a five kilo bag of Persil or whatever (1.0) would you let somebody else do that?
?: Yeah (.) yeah I suppose so but I mean   
?:   There’s things like (…) don’t you?
?:   What’s the point of you know, what’s the point, you’d still  be going to get your own odds, odds and ends aswell but I mean you know for maybe looking for the best car insurance or things like that but
?: I don’t know if I’d like to give them all my details about credit cards and all that sort of thing because you’d mentioned something about credit card fraud and then you hear about it  pardon  
?:  It came up that they’d encrypted it on the Toys R’Us so
?: Did they?
?: So that nobody else could gain access to that information
?: I’d spend less money doing my shopping on the Internet
?: I think I would as well  
?:   Because when I go round (…)
?:  (…)And you’d have time to think about it wouldn’t you 
?: Yeah [laughter]
?: You know to browse through a list as opposed to browsing up and down the aisles and missing things and, you could actually take time couldn’t you?
?: You, you could have it with you if it was a portable in the kitchen look in cupboards couldn’t you?
?: Mmm, yeah and just [laughter]
?: Yeah with something like this (2.0) you could shout the orders out to your kids (…) that ought to damn their computer [laughter] (…)
PL: Yeah
?: I’d have to I’m afraid [laughter] (…)          
?: I would, I’d get my son to do it all the time
?: That’s the most impressive one, the supermarket one
LM: Yeah 
?: Yeah, I think so very impressive
LM: So try and relate this yeah to other  
?: Clothes shopping, I’d be dubious about clothes (…)
?: Yeah I like going round and look and feeling the material
?: Yeah and yeah, there’s lots of too many things you’ve got to consider when you buying (…) [laughter]
LM: Would you buy anything else from home at the moment?
?: Car parts would be good stuff like that car parts
?: Yeah and doing your tax, I hate sorting out tax on my car (…)
?: And probably if you was having a party you might want to order a load of booze from the off-licence, that sort of thing, if it’s bulk
?: Yeah if you were having a party and you could hire the glasses and get loads of booze over (.)
LM: How about the flower?
?: Yeah that’s alright
?: Yeah, that’s nice because you more or less  
?:   ‘Cos you don’t see the flowers anyway
?: No you look for a brochure don’t you when you go in the shop anyway  you’re only looking at the same thing as what we’re seeing on the screen so yeah that’d be good and for um (1.0) short notice as well ‘cos I had to recently order flowers at very short notice and it was actually (.) getting to the shop before two o’clock to make sure that it was delivered and then a lot of the time with the shops these days you can’t park near any of them you know all that sort of thing that’s inconvenient and another thing  I was reading about in the papers this week is that they’re going to try and really disencourage people to drive to any of the shops to work that they’re going to you know make it so hard, this would be ideal then because they were saying that they were going to make supermarket shopping parking spaces charged for to deter people
?: Sustainable development
?: Yeah [laughter] to deter people
?: It’s because there’s too much pollution
?: Yeah, but do you think the supermarkets would stand that, because  
?:   Some of them do charge don’t they, I mean they’ve all got the facilities yeah but they’ve all got the facilities if they want to start charging they’ve got the kiosks there haven’t they and everything well a lot of the,  you know you look at that because the Sainsbury’s that opened up near me up Dog Kennel Hill I thought it was going to be a charging one because they have got the pay me, pay you know how much it costs but it’s actually free but of course the problem is that they will start charging you know if
?: Well yeah but they might get blown up by the um mardi gras (…) [laughter]
?: (…) very near, I’d say nearer, nearer
?: Mmm scarey
LM: So how would this kind of home shopping compare with say catalogue shopping or paying for things over the phone does anybody buy anything over the phone, give your credit card details over the phone?
?: No
?: Yes, I use tickets
?: Maybe
?: Yeah that would be another good thing wouldn’t it tickets on the Internet
?: Yeah
?: Mmm
?: Yeah if you could buy tickets  
?:   For shows and football matches and stuff like that
?: They have (…) football ground on there, don’t they? (.)
?: Yeah that’s a good one definitely ticket ordering, ticket ordering’s a good one
?: Mmm
?: And it would be nice actually for things like a football stadium if they have them planned, football stadium layout so you can choose your seat
?: Mmm, mmm
?: Yes
?: Say in the theatre, do that
?: Mmm
?: And a concert so
?: Mmm (2.0)
LM: Okay (.)
?: Would you say they, apart from the delivery charge are they putting a mark up on  because in catalogues you get a mark on don’t you catalogue stuff is always more expensive
?: Mmm you always pay a bit extra
?:  Yeah so this perhaps has got the edge that way on catalogues
?: Did you, you said the cigarettes were cheap
?: They were two pound and ninety-one is really cheap
?: Well then obviously they’re not
?: No (…) Tesco’s (…)
LM: I think the thing with Tesco’s is that they’re the same price and they’ll put them on the CD Rom at their kind of standard price and every time they print new CD Roms they’ll make sure they’re up to date
?: Mmm
?: Yeah
?: Would they  
?:   (…) Actually you know, you can download the current prices 
?: Right, oh right
?: And when you go on the Internet it downloads all the current prices onto the (…)
?: Yeah if you had the Internet I suppose if you just bought the CD Rom in effect you’d have to sort of have a rough idea that this is what it  
?:   (…) Trouble is though you change the odd price here and there and stuff
?: Yeah that’s why I’m saying would you still get your special offers but I assume you would if something was on special even though it’s not on the CD Rom you do yeah so if it’s three for the price of  two or something  or two for the price of one you’d get that (.) ah but would you order two without knowing you know because if you don’t pick up two items in the supermarket that you
?: You don’t get third one free or whatever
?: Oh yeah they don’t turn round on the thing and say ‘oh sorry madam you’ve just picked up a bottle of flash and we’ve actually got a special offer at the moment   you’ve just paid for that one bottle of flash’
PL: Well they have a thing on there where you can say um ask for the special offers in the category you’ve just searched for  
?:   Right
PL: So say you’re searching for I don’t know, washing up liquid it will, you know,  you say enter proximity and they’ll say (…) two for one  
?:   You have to be on the net
?: You’d have to be on the net for that one wouldn’t you  
PL:   Yes you’d have to go on the net for that one (2.0)
LM: Okay so what do you think if this takes off what changes might that this bring
will we still go and shop down the high street?
?: People are going to get very fat [laughter] ‘cos if that’s all you do for your weekly exercise is go shopping then you’re losing that too and people are going to get rather large
?: And do you think people will?
?: Yeah (…)
?: This is just an alternative isn’t it  
?:   Oh yeah
?: It’s not going to take away you going shopping
?: Oh no I know that but I’m just saying that  
?:   (…)
?: You know and I think different regions as well because there are more  
?: What is it?
[commotion about something in the room that looks like a rat]
LM: Okay and can you think of what sort of other things might change if this takes off?
[commotion about something unrelated]
LM: Yeah so what do you, what do you think might be the implications for sort of relationships between consumers and, and retailers in the shops
?: It would be good environmentally for reasons that I’ve explained already, less vehicles on the road which is always a good idea, it’ll help the disabled and help um elderly and infirm people if they get onto the net though that’s the thing it’s getting it into people’s homes  
?:   It might really scare people especially old people
?: But they’re used to be home delivery of people’s shopping you know we’ve  
?:   Mmm but if you try to get to get a really elderly person to even go near a computer  
?:  Yeah that’s, that’s  
?: They’ll start having kittens
?: Well my nan loves it
?: Yeah older people don’t really like computers
?: Then they’re, it’s up and coming generations isn’t it this is what they’re thinking
?: Yeah, it’s not people who are old (…)
?: It’ll be all old people out shopping and all the young ones will be at home [laughter]
?: I think people’s health is going to plummet, I don’t think people will be very healthy at all
?: People get, no
?: I don’t know, it gives you more time to be in the gym or go swimming or something
?: (…) That’s only a minority of people, it won’t I know for myself if I had a chance of sitting indoors and watching Sunset Beach on Saturday afternoon rather than go shopping I’d do it, I wouldn’t do anything very active with my time that I had left over
?: Oh I would I just can’t go enough because I’m too busy but if I didn’t have to go shopping I’d go to the gym instead
?: Yeah but there are some people, some people they’re on their own all day and there’s a lot of people like this that they just go out to, to really meet people
?: Yeah so yeah, it’s going make some people really  
?:   You know they, it doesn’t, I know a lady who’s seventy and she’ll go out and buy something even if she doesn’t want it and she might take it back to Marks and Spencer’s tomorrow, because that’s like two trips out, she’s maybe not speaking to people but she’s out there 
?: Yeah it’s true
?: And I think that’s important
?: Yeah I understand what you’re saying but there’s a lot of commune, community development type projects happening and they’re trying to involve the community in different activities so if you can be involved in a proper activity rather than just walking around shops  
?:   Well, we know that but then again
?: Then that’s more social isn’t it and there’s (…)outside for those sorts of things
?: (…) At the same time, haven’t they?
?: Yeah they’ve already got plenty of time on their hands anyway  
?:   Too much time yeah
?: ‘Cos if they’ve been working all their life and then they’re retired I mean you know that’s one of the worse things when somebody’s worked for years and years and years and then retire they’re like what am I going to do with my time?
?: Yeah
?: It’s true (.)
?: You know and people do need to get out and be with people I don’t care what anybody says
?: I quite agree with you (…)
?: (...) Young people these days, young people don’t get half the exercise  
?:   There’s a lot less impulse buying
?: That the next generation above us used to get I look at myself and then I look at my sisters then I look at all their friends and they’re a lot more active than what me or any other of my friends are
?: (…) Actually going out, actively intending to buy one specific thing
LM: So do you think it would give people more control if they were doing it like this or  
?:   No
?: No
?: Mmm
?: They haven’t got that hands on control have they?
?: They’re the sort of things we were talking about, can’t remember who mentioned it about adverts earlier, about adverts I think it was you  
?:   Yeah you mentioned it when you sss on the e-mail
?: Oh yes ‘cos on hot mail you get all these stupid adverts at the end of your letter annoying
?: About, about what, what sort of adverts are they?
are they
?: Well just like collect and have your, have a thing you can get into all over the world to read your messages for just nineteen dollars
?: Oh so it’s advertising software really
?: Yeah ‘cos it’s not hot-mail is not the same as e-mail um ‘cos e-mail you can only do at your home computer or at college or whatever and with hot-mail you can just log into (…) computer anywhere you’ve got like a code say if you’re travelling around you can access your mail wherever you are
?: Mmm and it’s on that service about um (…)
?: That would put me off as well though about the Internet because the TV drives me mad with adverts and the radio definitely drives me mad with adverts then get on my computer and have adverts flashing in my face as well then
?: Yeah it is annoying that kind of takes the control away from the consumer doesn’t it   I mean any old ad just spring up and you’ve got to get rid off it before you can go on and do your next (…)
?: It would sort of depend how the company’s marketed this stuff if they give the   consumer um complete control so you just type in exactly what you want and they show you a range of suitable things that’s fair enough but I suppose if they’re sort of bombarding you with like buy this have this look isn’t it great then it is a bit of an invasion
?: Yeah 
?: To get you to spend more money (3.0)
?: That’s all that is really (…) aren’t they trying to make a profit out of it so it’s on the Internet or going down the road or on the TV or radio that’s what it’s after
?: That’s intrusive though on your own personal workstation
?: Yeah but that’s what a lot of people didn’t like about ITV there’s a lot of older people that are very staunch BBC 1 watchers because they can’t stand the adverts   they don’t see why they’re (…)  
?:   It’s part of the culture isn’t it
?: And let’s face it how many men do you know that sit there and watch the adverts   they sit there flicking it over all the time (…) [laughter] they do
?: (…) Adverts work don’t they you can’t blame them for putting adverts on ‘cos they’re effective I mean you know they aim for children and children want things they see on telly
?: Yeah but I just think it’s a bit intrusive having it on your own personal PC
?: Especially if you can’t turn over to another channel or something while they’re on
?: Yeah (…)
?: It means then as well that they’re taking up your time because you’re having to click that away or whatever and it’s getting in the way of what you’re trying to do 
?: And plus you’re paying for it as well aren’t you
?: You’re paying for that connection yeah
?: I’m positive on the, on the book sales um did you mention it earlier on 
?: Yeah I think I mentioned it if something you couldn’t get hold of that’s a real advantage
LM: Yeah there’s like an out of print book search on the Waterstone’s site
?: That’s good
?: Yeah that’s good 
LM: For example
?: And things like text books when you studying and that they’re really hard to get because everybody’s bought them out all the shops
N: I’ll definitely look for that when I go into college tomorrow
LM: Yeah, Waterstone’s co dot 
?: Waterstone’s are a really good bookshop anyway aren’t they just to walk into and (…) I’ve got some books and stuff out there
LM: Would that yeah  I mean if it’s a brand you know if you know that Waterstone’s are good they’re a good bookshop would that make you more likely to want to (...) or  
?:   Yeah well I think that you could definitely get what you wanted so then I think well I might as well go into the Internet because I know Waterstone’s probably would have it or be able to get it (…) they’ve got to order it
?: Yeah, yeah
?: (…) Just tiny
?: Yeah, good to be a doctor or  
?:   Are Blackwell’s on there as well?
LM: I think they are I’m not sure if you can buy things directly over the net at the moment but I’m almost certain they’ve got site yeah, I think it’s quite a big one (1.0) but like this site Amazon the American one I was telling you about I mean they don’t exist as anything other than an Internet shop
?: Oh right
?: So I mean would you be more or less inclined do you think to go for something like that or something you already know, what’s it going to (…)?
?: Well sometimes you do put mail order for things don’t you, for things that you can’t see (…)
N: I’m not sure that I’d want stuff ordered in America because you’d have to wait so long for it to turn up 
?: And the cost of the call, (.) the cost of the connection (…)
?: Yeah but if he’s going through British Telecom then (…)
?: (…)
LM: Yeah your phone line, it’s going to be local rate no matter (…)  
?:   Oh if it’s a local rate (…)
?: (…) They sell calls cheap don’t they to America I wonder if you’ve got one of them how about if you’re use, if you’ve got a BT phone that you’ve gone out and bought one of those cards phone cards you know the . 
LM:   Yeah
?: And you’ve got a pin number on it on the card haven’t you and then you tap that into your phone and then what happens then
LM: I don’t know ‘cos it’s only a local call anyway and so it depends whether it would be a discount on local calls, if it did I don’t know whether that would work
?: No the discount is only for international calls but I’m thinking you know if you got um the price of a call to America ‘cos as I said they’re really, really cheap on those cards that you can buy
LM: Yeah
?: Silly money (…)
PL: It’s just like you’re dialling (…) so you could do that
?: You could do that as well so that would be really cheap to get through to America
?: But is it going to America?
LM: No, not really the connection is to, is to CompuServe
?: Right
?: Oh right and then they connect to America
?: So you’re not paying for the contact to America
?: You don’t pay for the price of a call to America
LM: No it’s all local calls no matter where
?: Oh right, so you wouldn’t have to worry about that (…)
LM: Yeah (2.0) and what about
N: But then if you use your credit card I know mine charges more for foreign transactions
?: But it wouldn’t be, would it be a foreign transaction?
?: But if you’re paying in dollars then it would wouldn’t it, it’d be like being abroad ‘cos mine charges like two and a half percent on some things and stuff that you do abroad (.) just for exchanging the money
?: Yeah
?: So you’ll have that extra charge on the card (…) yeah
?: Do you, do you?
LM: I’m not sure I know what you mean though that sometimes if you’ve used your kind of visa card or whatever abroad then they convert it at whatever rate then they might charge it as though they were changing currency but I’m not really sure
?: So yeah if I was going to order something it would definitely be from a British company (.)
?: Yeah  but it might be so cheap what you’re getting from America that that’ll justify all the other costs you might still end up saving more money
?: I think part of the attraction as well is getting it really quickly 
?: Oh right
?: So I think if it came all the way from America it would sort of be a couple of weeks and I’d want it in three days
?: If it was something that you could only get from America though then you would be willing to wait 
?: Yeah, yeah, yeah
?: What about things like sportswear um like trainers they say a pair of Reebok trainers (…)  
?:   They’re really cheap in America  
?:   They’re so much cheaper in the States
?: Levis were like twenty dollars weren’t they
?: And you can buy things in Japan can’t you like all the designer sweatshirts or whatever so there’s got to be something somewhere 
?: Where the government’s not losing any vat or
?: Well yeah [laughter]
?: But isn’t it  
?:   Aren’t you going to end up with a big bill at the end of the year?
?: Well I don’t know
?: Well the government couldn’t really keep a track
?: Oh they’ll get their nose in everything
?: I don’t know what are the intricacies of that?
?: You said you wasn’t sure didn’t you earlier on about that, that there was a grey area  
?:   ‘Cos I’ve heard that they were going to start off-planet banking (1.0) didn’t you hear about that?
PL: That’s right
?: What’s that, what (…) 
?: Oh he knows (…) [laughter]
PL: Well I know Inland Revenue are very concerned about this um what they can’t predict at the moment is the volume I mean if they can’t actually recoup the taxes unless you volunteer them of course but people won’t do that once they realise they don’t have to, there’s no records of it 
LM: Are you talking about Internet shopping now
PL: Yeah
?: (…)
LM: What’s this off-planet banking that you’re talking about?
PL: Well the, you, at the moment you um earn interest for example on account they’ve got to be located somewhere so you have to declare that factor, but if they’re literally not located anywhere, they’re in a virtual bank that’s not in their country  
LM:   It’s just a site on the Net that everybody  
?:   A cyber bank  
PL:   A cyber bank where (…) [laughter] you wouldn’t have to think about that it’d be like a superior, a superior form of offshore banking (…) off-planet [laughter]
?: Is this going to have a slight effect on the money market? [laughter]
PL: Well that’s what they want to know, it’s ‘cos they don’t know it all depends on the volume
?: They don’t know (…)  
?:   It depends on whether the Internet really takes off it looks like it is I mean you know  
?:  It’s early stages
?: You read, yeah but you read about it all the time it’s always in the papers something and all these columnists in the papers they’ve all got e-mail addresses haven’t they and all the newspapers have them now, I mean everybody’s,  all the big established enterprises
?: (…) Companies yeah
?: Companies, everybody (.) fan clubs
LM: Why do you think they’re doing that though like I mean do you think they think it’s the future or they want to make it (…)?
?: Yeah
?: It seems to be  
LM:   Just a bandwagon thing or what?
?: No I think they think it’s going to be part of like the telly and the video and the stack system in your home it’s going to and computers I mean how many people had computers ten years ago they’re not you know you don’t walk into someone’s house and go wow you’ve got a computer do you?
?: Well there was talk when I worked in the Cable company of um combining it all into one you know (…)
?: Well you can more or less can’t you apart from watching telly on the computer, you can play music
?: You can plug, you can plug the er computer into the telly now
?: Oh you can do that as well so you can, you’ve got your phone on there, you can have a fax
?: I think you can, can’t you?
LM: I don’t know it rings a bell actually what like use the keyboard on the computer and see the screen on your TV
?: And you get cameras that don’t have film and then you plug them in to the computer   and develop  
?: Yeah and you watch television programmes (…)
?: (…) Computer cameras [laughter]
LM: So you can mess around with the picture? (…)
?: (…) I mean you can play music can’t you, while you’re working (…)
?: (…) Digital, digital television
?: We should have our home security system linked to it as well (…) and it had um all sorts of different things on it including home security and they said that the future was that you’d have one phone line coming in and everything would be there the television the computer the telephone all (…) fax, on the one box  and I thought it was amazing
?: When can you talk to it? [laughs] (…) only (…) (2.0)
LM: Okay um anybody else got any other sort of comments, general comments about this?
?: (…) (2.0)
?: I like the idea of it, it’s a sign of the times (2.0) you know it’s just the way, it is the way forward isn’t it I think
?: Cuts down a lot of traffic problems as well
?: Mmm
?: Pollution problems (2.0)
?: Well even if the everyday person wasn’t interested companies and all that they’ll do it between themselves won’t they I mean I think it, I think that probably most companies are connected in some way and it is just the normal every day to day person that they need to reach out to nail the Internet such as what we’re doing here tonight
?: But the distressing thing, it’s like this lady was saying here is that jobs will disappear   the more that  unless there’s sort of jobs that we’re not aware of yet might come from the same thing  
?:   But the only thing I’d say about it is that the computer world has developed well paid jobs that anybody that’s got the aptitude and the inclination can become involved in I always think that computer skills you, you, you’re very rarely unemployed if you’ve got computer skills 
?: (…) computer skills isn’t it really   
?: Imagine if your child turned round and said ‘oh I want to go into computers mum when I leave school’ you’re not going to turn round and say oh my God no that’s a failing business you’d encourage them really wouldn’t you because you know they can’t lose
?: Yeah if there’s one other drawback on er development is that it’s a bit elitist as well   because there is a wide margin in most countries now and some people just will never have the access so they will feel more and more marginalised by it
LM: So how can we prevent that happening?
?: By making the equipment cheaper, by um bringing more equality into society which is [laughs] a big global question but it, it doesn’t look like it’s changing
?: It’s like with anything else in the developing world they will inevitably catch up
?: Not just in the developing world in this country we’ve got a wide margin between those that have and those that don’t have so even people in small western countries like ours will feel marginalised because they won’t feel part of the society (…) to the network
?: You’re right yeah
?: Well they could have them in public libraries
?: They do have them in public libraries
?: Yeah but that’s not quite the same as having it from your own armchair is it
?: No but that’s like with anything, you know that’s what I’m saying   
?: It’s not free though is it in the public libraries to connect to the Net?
?: I don’t know it’s chargeable I would have thought
?: Yeah but it’s not free for anybody is it but it’s available it’s the availability isn’t it?
?: But it still will cause unemployment and I know we encourage our kids to go to college to do this and that but for every one or two children that do go on to further education there’s about two hundred that don’t go onto, well or whatever, that don’t go on and they go to menial jobs and they are the ones who will be suffering so really it’s going to be the have’s the minority and the have’s not
?: There’s widening gaps everywhere across the world and the solutions are all in favour of the multinationals at the moment and the marginalisation is getting worse and this you know when you’re talking to people that haven’t got a clue what you’re talking about will make those people feel particularly out of society if you see what I mean they won’t feel a part of the whole thing
?: Yeah but I feel that the opportunities (.) with regards to the (…) people do learn about (.)
?: There’s lots of things for people to learn about
?: (…)
?: Schools have got computers now, haven’t they?
?: Yeah   
?: But they’re not constantly accessed by kids there’s not enough provision, there’s not enough resources  
?:   Yeah I know you say but then most children have knowledge of using the computer and they’re quite confident with it so it’s not, I don’t think it’s that bad you know I think probably in our day and age we would have probably felt it more than now ‘cos it’s such a modern thing they do try and bring it in I think computers are everywhere that you go really
?: You’re right there but also as I said my daughter’s doing advanced business studies in college now when she started doing the course um they could use the computer to book in the computer at the college and it was absolutely horrendous to try and get a booking so we went out and bought her what she needed the Windows and whatever   but out of her class there’s only a couple that have their own access to do their work at home compared to an awful lot that haven’t
?: Yeah everybody’s (…) can’t access at college
?: (…) They go ‘Oh you’re really lucky’, how do you know  
?:   You say that but
?: No, no I’m being honest I want to tell you what’s going on  
?: But I went to college and learned how to type I didn’t have a typewriter at home I didn’t feel that I was at any, you know, at any disadvantage (…)
?: (…)
?: I don’t say, I don’t say you’re disadvantaged but I’m just saying  
?:   It’s just (…) processor isn’t it?
?: That there’s lots of people that have not got it 
?: Mmm
?: That haven’t got it that can’t go and pull off a couple of grand to go and buy the computer 
?: Mmm
?: You know I mean when my daughter got it, I mean she was going to use somebody’s laptop and then she got let down this night and literally we went out to PC World and we got it for her ‘cos she had to, well didn’t say she had to have it but it was important for her studies, and giving here every encouragement and she was told   she said ‘oh I went and got a computer but’,  ‘oh you’re really spoilt’, the amount of people that said that she was really spoilt but that she wasn’t spoilt that was for her to encourage  
?:   It was a necessity
?: To encourage her to keep on with her course you’d be surprised the amount of kids that start the courses and after the first term they drop out
?: (…)
?: And that is, that’s (…) yeah so  
?:   I think it is elitist in that sense   
?: It is, it is
?: It is
?: And it’s a shame the way things are heading ‘cos the more we globalise the worse it’s getting
?: You know they do have computers in school I work in a school I know exactly what goes on but there are a lot of kids that do not have access at home (3.0)
LM: Right, okay
?: Lots of (…) [laughter] (…)
?: I’m sorry but there an awful lot of kids that haven’t got it and have got no  
?:   And they, they feel disadvantaged don’t they 
?: Yes, yes
?: Because they can’t converse with the rest of them on, I don’t know if it’s a bunch of lads on computer games or whatever, if they haven’t got one in the home and they feel kind of left out (1.0)
?: But as, as the technology [laughter] gets a pace more and more it should come down in price  
?:   It should become cheaper, that’s right and I think that’s what’s to aim for if the industry could be a bit more reasonable on the cost on these sorts of things then they,  a lot more people would gain more access
?: It will get like that won’t they ‘cos everything ends up like that doesn’t it telly’s, colour telly’s at one stage
?: Yeah video recorders
?: Videos, I didn’t have a video for years, for years
?: The computers themselves, every time a new piece of technology comes out it’s lost its price in six months or something
?: I mean a lot of people rushed out and bought Amstrads didn’t they when they first come out I didn’t have an Amstrad or anything you know you just, I think you get to a stage in life where you suddenly find that you can acquire these things, things that looked impossible  
?:   Not everybody does though
?: Not everybody does, I tell you something there’s some kids that don’t even have a meal when they go home in the night they depend upon their lunch time meal at the school and I’m not talking (…)  
?:   But that’s not always necessarily a long term disadvantage that can actually be an inspiration for a child that ‘s lived a life, I know people that come from very poor backgrounds and purely for the sake that their background was poor that’s inspired them in life
?: That’s very (…) yeah
?: Brilliant (…)
?: (…) To drink all the time
?: Yeah, yeah, but you know it’s six of one and half a dozen of the other really isn’t it, it is, you know maybe a disadvantage to start off like that but there’s opportunities as well
PL: Is there anything the government could do about that problem of widening inequality?
?: Yeah, ‘course there is, [laughs] there’s loads of things they could do like get involved a bit more in industry  (…) have industry take a bit more of the responsibility for what’s going on really but the way it’s going at the moment with the up and coming multinational agreement on investment  it’s quite a doom and gloom picture really 
?: Do you mean?  
?:   And that means that all um developing countries will have to sign up to agreements which means that multinational companies can go into any developing country or any country across the globe and their rules and regulations take precedence over a country’s rules and regulations on labour on anything and everything, health and safety and they can actually sue governments for preventing them doing whatever so it’s not a very happy picture at the moment and I don’t think Britain all by themselves are going to do a lot about that (2.0)
LM: Right, okey doke [laughter] well, thank you very much it’s been very interesting
?: It was interesting from my point of view
?: thank you



Focus group 9, 11.3.98, C1C2D Men

L, 35, carpenter; 
M, 27, student and administrator; 
Mi, 19, student; 
B, 60, actor; 
P, 38, lab technician

PL: Just go round and if you could just er say what your name is and er what experience you’ve had, general experience with computing basically do you want to start?
?: My name is (…) L um I bought a computer but uh I just got it I’m just learning now so I’m pretty new to computers  so er (.) but I’m getting there [laughter]
M: Um my name’s M um I’ve got a PC at home but I’m not on the Internet at home but um I’m on the Internet at work um so I’ve just sort of used e-mail and Internet and things for about three years
PL: Right (.) any shopping?
M: Not really I once found out some stuff about a holiday  
PL:   Right
M: On the Internet but that’s about it (.) really
Mi: Hi I’m another Mi um I don’t have a computer I’ve been on the Internet once    which was at my college and that was to look up my er where my teacher could go and play golf in America [laughter] for my lesson [laughter] and that’s about it really
PL: Did you find out where he could go?
Mi: Yeah, yeah there’s a few places
PL: Okay (.)
B: I’m B I left BT last year um we’ve got computers all over the place in BT but um I wasn’t on the Net, Internet but um I’ve got a PC indoors I’ve been on the Internet my boy’s school and er sort of, what’s the word, surfed through it a bit you know and uh in my union branch shop ‘cos they’ve got e-mail facilities and they’re going on the Internet and I will probably use that as well but I’m not putting myself on the Internet yet
PL: Right
P: Yeah my name’s P uh I’ve got a, I’ve got a lap top at home uh I’ve sort of you know got access to the Internet I don’t use it that much actually at work but uh yeah I use all the Microsoft applications and I’ve sort of got e-mail on everything so that’s about it
PL: Okay well, what have you heard about um shopping on the Internet have you heard anything about it?
?: Mmm
?: Yeah, I have
?: Do you mean food shopping or specifically  
PL:   Well whatever, whatever anything
B: Mmm there was um about four years back there BT was running a promotional thing because they were doing this joint exercise with other companies and they, they were developing a system of shopping then that we were looking at, I suppose that’s what we’ll be looking at, where you can actually scan your way down a row of shopping, pick out what you wanted um um you know that’d be like a Sainsbury’s um with the same for clothes and so they were developing it four years ago I suspect it’s picked up quite a lot I imagine and that’ll be the type of thing they’d be using (.)
PL: Okay
?: I know Sainsbury’s are supposed to have a you’re supposed to be able to buy stuff off the Internet there
PL: Right [coughs] 
?: I’ve never bought anything
PL: I don’t think Sainsbury’s have got it but Tesco’s  
?:   Right 
PL: Tesco’s has started it, yeah Sainsbury’s are about to (.)
?: Well no um um I know it’s probably possible but I don’t know the ins and outs I don’t, apart from at college I don’t have a great deal of access but uh I hope to get a computer it will be useful for what I’m doing what I do so
PL: Mmm, mmm so what sort of things do you think you can buy on the Internet now (.) we’ve mentioned the Tesco’s food shopping anything else?
?: My brother’s on the Internet yeah and he knows a lot more about computers and that’s where I’m picking up hopefully and we were um about a couple of weeks ago we looked up the Internet for a new car 
PL: Oh right
?: And uh on the BMW range and it gave us about sixty different cars and prices all printed out and everything so that was very helpful 
PL: That’s good, yeah
?: Obviously it seems that the range that, well what you can buy on it is, is very open and very um wide as well 
PL: Right, more than going down to the  
?:   Oh yeah  
PL: Garage?
?: Yeah, I can imagine that soon it’s going to take over people will just shop on the Internet
?: Thing is there’s all your on-line time though, that’s the thing  you know you’re spending so much time on it it’s expensive
?: I, I, I suppose I mean if I was to go out and look for a new vehicle it could take me up to two or three weeks but on the Internet I mean all the vehicles (.) in the space of about ten fifteen minutes all printed out I mean
?: Yeah I think the thing that’s going to  
?: Everybody’s going to want that [laughter] 
?: Auto-traders talking about going on the Internet with their second-hand
PL: Right
?: Auto-traders I know they’re talking about going you know, so you, you’d or Loot or any of those when you can through the second-hand car list  you know and that would be quite useful ‘cos then you can actually bring up a particular car, you, it saves you all the travelling so I think it’s, the Internet’s so vast that it, you could probably  
?:   I, I looked for a holiday on there sort of quite recently  
PL:   Oh right
?: I had a look around on it but er (.) I found that I sort of spent so much time if I’m actually on there that I don’t get any work done so er [laughter] I think, this is, this is a problem at work since everybody’s had access to the Internet I think so little work gets done you know
?: I um at the same time I looked for the golf course there, we had to look up um for timpani, huge, huge drums specific German ones you know that you wouldn’t really find if you go down the Oxford Street or anything um so I suppose in other countries I suppose that that’s the benefit of the Internet you can look at what’s around not on your doorstep
?: Yeah I think it’d be good for unusual things like that and major things like a car but I can’t imagine ever doing supermarket shopping there ‘cos you want to go and  (…) off the shelves and see what it looks like  
?:  I, I think it’s got a real value for people that are disabled er and if it’s aligned with a service from, from the company then someone that is house-bound could order the food they want and have it delivered and I think, I think there is a real value in that
?: I think for the people who are incredibly busy at work  
?:   That’s right people are now working twenty-four hour shifts aren’t they 
?: That’s right
?: And they’ll be out ordering that food er you know stick it on the
?: That’s right if you do it at work and you can be, you know all the on-line time is paid for by them [laughter] (…) at home (…)
PL: Alright well look, we’ve got a computer here which we can get on the Net, shall we look at some of these sites you’ve mentioned  a few of the sites you’ve mentioned we can look at so do you want to give it a go? (3.0)
?: Dare me [laughs]
LM: I’m just thinking P actually that I didn’t put autoweb on, but I think it’s autoweb dot com or something
PL: The car, the car one oh okay [laughter] I was going to say Liz has been (…) for a car [laughter] (.) ah well this is Tesco’s program (4.0) who wants to have a go?
?: Well I can’t remember what the mouse is so [laughs]
?: Well, I wouldn’t have a clue but I’ll have PL: Well have a go
?: What shall I do, is that your mouse?
PL: Yeah, yeah that’s the mouse and you click this sign to read something, so this is the Tesco’s programme and you can  
?:   Shall we look at all the products?
?: See fruit and veg, I can’t imagine ever buying them [laughter] ‘cos you want to like pick out the ones you want
PL: But your cornflakes and your  
?:   Yeah your basics
?: But surely you can just order it and then they’re just going to have it all ready for you to just go round there and collect it, well I suppose you’ll still want to see (…) don’t you (2.0)
PL: so you, what have you picked to order?
?: I’ve picked all products
PL: Oh try, try a category let’s go for a category
?: Um what shall we go for um (2.0) ooh I’d say provisions, go
PL: Provisions and then you get what have we got there? 
?: I don’t know
PL: Beans, baked [laughter] (…)
?: It’s for his children (…) (4.0)
PL: Well, yeah pick one out and give it a go yeah any, anyone will do, no-one of these categories here
?: Oh right, oh yeah
?: You can go into them
PL: Yeah and then you can go into them you see and then you get the list of what they’ve got 
?: Oh right (4.0)
PL: And the price (.) here (2.0) and then if  
?:   What, what?
PL: Sorry
?: Does this have their entire range?
PL: It has got, er it’s linked to your local store and it’s got the entire stock of that store so then let’s take what’s this chicken breast of ?
?:Wouldn’t that be less queues in our supermarket? [laughter]
?: (…) A load of people
?: I click that there and it’s put it in my shopping trolley
?: Oh I see that’s clever [laughter]
PL: And then I can go into my checklist 
?: Brilliant how they do that
PL: And then I’ve got a checklist of the things that I’ve searched for and it gathers this up and then when I finished all that it gives you a total ninety-three pounds eighty-nine (…)
?: Do they charge you actually for sending it?
?: Oh um at the moment we’re not on-line ‘cos this is a programme that we’ve er, they’ve sent us, they send a cd and so it’s all  [laughter]
?: That’s amazing
PL: So then when you’ve got your list finished you just send it down the line and say  
?: I can order a round of pizzas after this [laughter]
?: I suppose the limiting factor of that is is you couldn’t actually look at the products (…) [laughter] (…) you can’t look at the product, if for instance people say we’re looking at the fat content of that particular item then you’re not going to know the fat or the energy and you’re not going to pick up the deals that are down there you know so they need to add to that so that  
PL:   Couldn’t they have done that though?
?: There’s no reason why they shouldn’t   
?:   There’s no reason why they couldn’t do that is actually you can grab a bag of beans and see, and (…) the questions yeah
PL: Yeah, yeah, no you’re right they haven’t but (…)
?: No 
?: It, it can take a long time aswell can’t it, some times of the day it can be incredibly slow
?: Yeah
PL: Well this bit, that’s the advantage of this bit is that it’s not on-line so
?: Yeah but I mean in a real situation
PL: When you’re, when you’re actually on-line
?: I suppose it would be possible to if you had the programme up, but it wasn’t on-line I don’t know if you can get it then but if you could get the programme you could put it into memory and it could come on when, when it fact it wasn’t busy, do you see what I mean [laughs]?
PL: Well, I don’t think it knows 
?: No, it wouldn’t be able to know would you?
PL: No it’s a nice idea
?: Well like an e-mail you see
PL: Yeah
?: I suppose you could somehow store in your regular products that you use (…)
PL: Right, right
?: You don’t, I mean the thing is, it’s, now you could do it if it’s on a twenty four basis then you could do it overnight couldn’t you I suppose you know
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: But what I see as a limiting factor is you can’t actually see the products you can’t see, you can’t see what’s on the labelling and I think that’ll be  
?:   I can see, just like you know, if you wanted to buy a bunch of bananas exactly what degree of ripeness they were
?: Single blokes single, single blokes will use it without a problem I would if I was single I wouldn’t be bothered about going Sainsbury’s, I never been in Sainsbury’s since I’ve been married what a horror you know I mean shopping, shopping is a horrible thing and there should be a creche for men but I think that a lot of blokes will go but when you’re married and you’ve got kids and you look at the products a lot more they’re going to have to develop it a bit more I think to make them family user friendly
?: I don’t know but having said that I, I dread going round Sainsbury’s with my kids you know sometimes they’re sliding around and this and that sometimes I’d rather just sort of you know, it’d be great to do that
?: Yeah (.)
PL: What are you going for now? (2.0) Lincolnshire (…) [laughter]
?: Lincolnshire what? [laughter]
PL: What’s that? [laughter] (2.0) What was that under Lincolnshire breads?
?: No bread malt [laughter]
?: Bread mill?
?: I think yeah as you say some people will be worried about what they’re actually going to get once it’s come in the van  and (…)  
?:   Sure, I’m sure that it will develop to take all those basics, all those facilities (…)
PL: Well what Tesco’s have done is they, they they’ve actually employed people now to work as expert shoppers on your behalf, they actually go round with a trolley and do your shopping and then send it to your home
?: It will, it will create more jobs there’s going to be more delivery out of it and everything else, I mean you think I know the real value for this is say you live in, in, in the Isle of Harris and the nearest shopping centre to you is Stornaway where which has only got one supermarket uh or wherever you are Devon or (…) or something you can actually order that and have it arrive by a Sainsbury’s deliverer
PL: Do you think they’ll (…) in the rural areas I mean so far  
?:   Well, they might charge you but then again it might still be better, preferable to actually going out there in a cab or driving and using your own petrol
?: So you might have to pay more for the delivery 
?: Maybe yeah
?: Well maybe but you know (…) rural they have deliveries made anyway or if they have to get slaughtered down the local spa or whatever it is you know
PL: Yeah, yeah, yeah, right
?: It’s completely back to the old days when you had like a local grocer isn’t it? (…)
?: Yeah, yeah I mean I think, I think there is a value to it
?: I mean um have, have, are they actually using this at the moment or is it still in?
PL: Mmm 
?: How much do they charge for delivery?
?: They’re bringing out a delivery right now I hope [laughter]
?: Yes it is
?: (…) Supermarkets have actually (…)
LM: (…) [laughter]
PL: Well, I wasn’t there [laughter]
?: But they are the only supermarket at the moment with their own cyber shopping aren’t they?
PL: That’s right, yes, that’s right but I think Sainsbury’s are about to roll one out so it will be interesting, there’ll be some competition
?: Yeah that’s, that’s, that’s going to be (…)
?: How do you put it in your shopping basket?
PL: Oh right you just double click on it, have a go (2.0) has it gone in?
?: (…)
?: Yeah, excellent I’m not sure we wanted that in our shopping basket [laughter]
?: How much more is it, can you take them out?
PL: Yeah you can delete them (.) if we go to er, no I like brioche actually, but let’s find it, where is it
?: Um
PL: Oh can’t find it now
?: It’s probably just some  
PL: Well let’s delete these bagels I think where’s the delete can’t see it oh here we are look
?: It’s there bread, naan, some yeah, brioche
?: Brioche loaf
?: And, and bagels seems like a good choice to me I thought we’d taken that out the bin [laughter] (…) get some red wine
PL: It’s not is it
?: Yeah, sounds quite good
PL: Okay, okay, well that, so that’s Tesco, that’s, so that’s off-line and then you’d send it all down the line and it takes a, a, a few seconds now er what are we using CompuServe (7.0)
Computer: Welcome to CompuServe [laughter]
?: God
?: Struth [laughter]
?: That’s the down side of all of this [laughter] beeps and (…)
PL: Alright so now CompuServe is just an Internet service provider so we’re just using this one we could use others (.)
?: Do they all, are they all sort of doorways to everything or is it that some of them limited or you know to some  
PL:   They’re all gateways and you can
?: Yeah
PL: And once you’re in there  
?:   It’s all the same thing, it’s all the same product
PL: Not entirely the, the service providers are slightly different in that they have some of their own areas with their own information and their own software user groups and groups of people who are talking to each other about issues, those are different on each provider but then they all also connect to the Internet and that’s the same that’s all the computers that are connected. Well how are we doing here, so now it’s dial through and we’re getting on-line
?: I find it quite frightening actually and I’m a  young person [laughter] (2.0)
PL: Oh dear maybe I haven’t paid my own bill [laughter] oh yeah, going through (2.0) right here we go
?: So it’s got a built-in modem has it?
PL: This has got a card modem here, it’s like a little er credit card just slides into the computer
?: What sort of price? [coughing]   PL: What the?
?: That computer (…) to be on the Internet?
PL: Yeah you can, anything from a thousand upwards you could  
?:   (…)
PL: This one’s [coughing] (…)                                                                                                                               ?: Mmm very clear print                                                                                                                LM: It’s a nice screen for a laptop, lots of laptops (…)                                                                                                                ?: I think the prices are coming down aren’t they?                                                                         PL: Exactly
?: Really are coming down
?: (…) [laughter]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL: I think we’re having er usual er Internet problems here (3.0) it’s not connecting but (2.0) should we be patient should I be patient?                                                                 
LM: It took a long while (…)
PL: Not this long, sometimes it gets (4.0) let’s try again (7.0) oh I don’t like the look of that                                                                                   
LM: Is that your dialling (…) P, yeah you try that (1.0)
?: Does it know you’re at a different phone number?
PL: Er no, oh well it’s this number here, it’s a national number for local um rates (20.0)
?: Not clear 
PL: Looks like we might be they’ve got another room we can try, ah here we go
?: Here we go, we’re through (8.0) 
PL: Alright who’s going to have a go now then this has set up some sites (1.0) where is it (…) (1.0)
LM: You can (…) that
PL: Sorry?
LM: You can make it big as well can’t you on the screen
PL: Oh yeah (6.0) so here’s our favourites, we set up some sites for us to look at which one would you like to see we’ve got a book shop,  an American book shop  
?:   Oh Waterstone’s
PL: Yeah
?: That’s a good idea
PL: Want a go? (13.0)
?: So you can buy stuff in Waterstone’s?
PL: Can (…) yeah, yeah, (…) (3.0)
?: (…) Advertising that, (…)
?: No, never heard of the Waterstone’s ones, I suppose there, is there much advertising on the Internet?
PL: Um
?: Or is it a little world within a world?
?: The thing is I think if, if  
PL:   There is advertising
?: You’re on the Internet and you are looking well you think oh I’ll just have a look I wonder if you can do this you’re only assuming it’s for Internet users anyway (3.0)
PL: But you’re right I don’t think they’ve been marketing that very strongly (4.0) must be one of the (…) (23.0) ah so this is a particular set of groups of books that they’re trying to, suggest we have a look at (11.0) oh right
?: Order, there it is (9.0)
PL: What’s that? (19.0) right you’ll have to clear the screen first (20.0) what’s this, looking for a book?
?: Yeah (2.0)
?: Search (5.0)
PL: There you can enter now these details and then it will search for, if you want a particular author
?: Right er (…)
PL: I’d like to put myself in [laughter]
?: As you must [laughter]
LM: I’m sure they’ll have plenty of copies in stock [laughter] 
PL: I did sell my books to Waterstone’s [laughter] I bet they’ve got nothing here now (6.0)
LM: (…) I’m quite intrigued [laughter]
PL: (…) One there (2.0)
LM: Hardback 
PL: Yeah
LM: Fifty quid [laughter]
PL: Here we go look
?: What is it?
PL: Another one (1.0)
LM: That’s quite expensive though isn’t it fifty quid
PL: (…)  
?: Try and get a cheap copy from the (…) [laughter]
PL: Oh there are more, anyway yeah, so then you can order
?: One a month [laughter] (1.0)
?: We’re being tricked here (…) [laughter]
?: That’s what I thought yeah aswell yeah 
?: Twenty copies coming through tomorrow morning [laughter]
PL: Well that would double my sales for this year [laughter]
?: How do you pay then,  do they send it through with you paying later
PL: Well I was just going to, I was just going to have a go at taking you through paying for something see if we can do it, is it coming (3.0)
?: It’s waiting
PL: It’s waiting yeah I clicked on this to say go for it but it doesn’t look like it’s going to (2.0) oh well there we are that’s the stuff about it (3.0) and you can add to your order(10.0) and then you can fill out your order form here, anyone want to buy it? [laughter]
?: Not without (…) I’m sorry [laughter] (2.0)
?: How much do they charge to deliver?  
PL: I don’t know, I think that’s down here, UK postal rates one fifty, if you want one paperback or er alright 
?: If you buy one of your books though, tax free
PL: Oh really
?: Forty-five (…) [laughter] 
PL: That’ll sold quite well that one, now if we look at this one here um there’s a let’s look at this site, it’s a like a shopping mall 
?: Barclay Square
PL: Barclay Square (4.0)
?: Have you got some scientific papers published in there somewhere?
PL: Yes yeah, not on the shopping pages though [laughter] (3.0) um (8.0) where’s the square itself ah here it is (3.0) so this is like a, the Internet shopping mall a number of different shops that are put together and you can browse around (4.0) go on, whose going to have a go? 
?: This is all being done in such a small space of time isn’t it the Internet is quite young on the 
PL: Yeah (2.0)
?: I find it amazing at your age that you’re suspicious of it
?: Yeah I know [laughter]
PL: Why, did you think (…) younger people would be er  
?: Yeah, that’s right, (…) old fogies like me you know [laughter]
PL: Well I think that people think that, if you think that’s (2.0) what have we got sport and leisure we got there is a car one on here isn’t there motoring (…)
?: It can take quite a long time to get to know how it works I think it was a good six months before I ‘cos there’s a lot of crap on the Internet and it takes a long time to wade through  
?:   To (…) I’ve haven’t done it but I can imagine that you’ve got to (…) through the good  (…) and you know and then you can be very selective
?: Yeah, yeah (…)  
?:   (…) Got to make some workers spend their lives [laughs]
?: Oh yeah
?: Surfing the Net
?: I mean I would say that you know since we’ve all had Internet access I would say that people are spending two hours a day surfing the Internet minimum
?: Really
?: Oh yeah, yeah
PL: Really
?: Definitely yeah but the thing is I mean it’s, it’s very useful sort of uh you know, rather than go over to the library and look for research I mean in my particular field you know you might go and look for a couple of scientific papers on a particular subject and you know that takes quite a lot of your actual work time to go and do that through the library so it’s actually you know just as quick to do it on the Internet really
PL: Right, right
?: Oh I can see  
?:   And it’s quicker, a lot quicker, you know
?: I can see real value for it you know I mean you know I represent people at IT’s and you know perhaps you’ll get Harvey’s on there you can get your case law printed out 
PL: Right, right
?: It’ll be really useful you know instead of going up, whamming through this stuff you can come up and check against it, it’s an excellent way of doing it PL: Here’s, here’s a car, I’m buying a car now [laughter]
?: I can’t see air outside you [laughter]
?: You don’t need to look that far
?: I was going to go for a BMW [laughter]
?: Eighth series
PL: Oh I quite like the seventh series [laughter] (16.0) so is this similar to the one that you  
?:   Very much so
PL: Yeah
?: Certainly wouldn’t buy a house off of it would you [laughter]
PL: Well you can, you can  
?:   No I’m sure you can [laughter]
?: (…)
PL: Why not? [laughter]
?: You’d want to look at the damp proof course wouldn’t you? [laughter]
?: (…) trust estate agents to (…) everything correctly would you?
?: Brand new damp proof course when you get there, imagine all the er, the abbreviations that will come up with
?: Yeah
PL: Okay so now it, now we’ve got through to a typical, this is a set of choices here so you can say what, what body shape would you like, saloon  
?:   In my case a lot slimmer [laughter]
?: Like what, I won’t say anything [laughter]
PL: What’s your, what kind of gear box do you want?
?: Bloody hell
?: Manual
PL: Manual, what’s your fuel?
?: Thirty a day (2.0)
PL: (..) What’s this, they want to know your post code oh I’m not sure about that  
?: Mmm
PL: That’s getting a bit personal
?: What’s that got to do with it anyway  [laughter]
PL: That’s right (…) oh dear
?: If it’s Chelsea you probably get a better, a better um 
PL: Yeah [laughter]
?: A better, better selection, yeah [laughter]
?: Yeah, yeah you’re right if you’re on, that’s the insurance (…) that’s all done on postcodes isn’t it, SE15 (…)
?: Actually, talking about insurance  
PL: (…) Let’s be modest only twenty-five to thirty grand
?: (…)
?: Yeah, I suppose it would be
?: No, because it takes such a long time on the phone (…)
PL: Right, right
?: (…) I don’t see him being convinced by this [laughter]
?:  The thing is you’d be doing the (…) deal when you get there because we’re  
PL:   Oh look sorry no matching cars [laughter]
LM: Try a Kensington postcode
?: Yeah [laughter]
?: Try a Kensington postcode and see what happens [laughter]
?: Hey, that would be a good idea, we have many cars [laughter] (…)
PL: Okay so that didn’t work very well but you see the idea you put in the then it goes and searches its databases and another one (…)
?: But is that being run by BMW?
PL: No ‘cos we, this is a, this is like a  
?: So it’s not searching through different people’s (…) accounts
PL: Yeah I think that one, I think that one is, I think it’s going off and looking at different suppliers
?: Right so if it had found one, it would have come back
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: It’s very quick (1.0)
?: Right, well it was quick in terms of (…) [laughter] so here’s Loot
?: Loot, yes I think that would be on this (2.0)
?: We looked at the Internet for um starting up your own business loads and loads of stuff come through but it’s all in, but it’s all from America [laughs]
PL: Yeah right because a lot of the stuff is American stuff   
?:   Everything’s from America
PL: You can limit your searches to  
?:   Can you?
PL: You can, you can. Okay find it with Loot what do you want to, anyone want to buy anything?
?: Drum kit
PL: A drum kit?
?: Mmm
?: Okay come on [laughter] 
?: Oh sorry mate
?: It’s alright, go on
PL: I clicked to find it 
?: Okay
PL: So it should, it’s supposed to be coming on (2.5) anything happening (2.5) ah here we go so now you type in here what you want
?: Okay (.)
PL: So it’s just drums (4.0) so it’s saying yeah (3.0) okay it’s going to tell you what drum kit it’s got (6.0) what have they got?
?: (…) [laughter]
?: Does it say search?
?: It gives the prices yeah, but not (…) [laughter]
?: Yeah, it gives (…) [laughter] God you  
PL:   You can have a (…) drum machine
?: Yeah (…) [laughter] 
PL: Oops, the drum of Balmoral [laughter] that’s what you were saying about the Internet, it’s got a lot of rubbish on it [laughter]
?: Concrete [laughter] 
PL: Sorry go on, say you wanted to choose one not the, not the oil (…)
?: This is (…)
PL: Here we go
?: (…) The drummers and
PL: General (…)
?: I can’t work this little mouse good enough
PL: Ah right yeah
?: That’s a pity, you haven’t got a router have you (…)?
?: Have I got a router uh yeah I have but I think it’s in bits at the moment I think I (…) armature out actually
?: I’m looking for a heavy duty router, a half inch, to take a half inch bit  
?: Yeah and (…), yeah
?: I’ve got to er  
?:   Mmm
?: I’ve got to put my hand in my  
?:   Oh right, my brother’s just spent about five hundred quid on a, (…) twelve hundred (…)
?: Yeah, that’s what I’m after
?: Yeah, yeah, I keep meaning to, but er the last thing (…) router I had to (…) staircase for somebody and I was in a real rush to do it so rather than plunge in gradually, I just you know hiked it down right (…) 
PL: So you can click various things (…) 
?: So you clicked on a few things now
PL: (…) That’s right and then you can print out the results of your search print it out (…) so you don’t order on-line or anything even you just, you know finding phone numbers and here’s your clipboard now, let’s see what’s on it (5.0) 
?: A reasonable amount 
PL: Yeah there it is so that’s what we just (…)
?: Alright look for a router (3.0)
?: So what’s a router?
?: What’s a router [laughs] yeah
?: An electrical router
?: See I’ve got to take my mate (…)
?: That’s what I’m after
?: When I was at college my mate went to he wanted to know about a router and he got this video out with this bloke called someone something he’s really quite famous like you know for using routers and that and it’s got um, it’s got [laughs] chapter one that comes up and it’s got about safety and this bloke’s got about three fingers missing off of one hand and he’s talking about safety [laughter] he got (…)
PL: (…) Relevant experience [laughter] 
?: That’s right, yeah
?: (…) [laughter] Yeah
PL: How do you spell router?
?: Don’t know how you spell router
?: R.o.u.t.e.r
PL: Yeah, I thought so, ah press this (9.0) 
?: There we go
?: Gosh
PL: There we go, what is that (…) oh I see (2.0)
?: Can be (…) (3.0) 
?: Oh I think I’ll get one of those [laughter]
?: What’s the price on those? 
?: Just around to two hundred and twenty thousand
?: Uh what make? (3.0)
?: Is this legit?
?: Yeah this is it this is what’s selling now on Loot yeah
?: I’d better get Loot I’ve got to sort this out [laughter]
?: Oh Loot comes out Tuesdays comes out every other day they must update this    everyday because Loot comes out three four times a week
PL: That’s right
?: God yeah, so it just shows you the amount of people who are working on Loot now
?: I’m, I’m just about to buy a new one
?: You’re quite welcome to have mine now, but as I said, it doesn’t work you know
[laughter]
?: (…) Don’t they? 
?: Yes (4.0)
PL: Alright I think I’d better stop using this one (…) [laughter](7.0) oh what were we doing?
?: Looking for a router
PL: Well, it must have already gone out
LM: What was I using there? CompuServe?
PL: No I wasn’t (6.0)
?: Is there a fail safe in this in the event of a power cut
PL: No you can buy a, a  
?:   No I was just meaning if you was in the middle of something you know
PL: Yeah right no
?: Backup battery backup
?: That’s why I was wondering if you could have a battery put in [coughs]
Computer: ’Leaving CompuServe’
PL: Oh this, this will be fine because it’s got its own internal battery but for a desktop that would be a problem (3.0) alright so what do you think?
?: I want one [laughter]
PL: So do you think it’s going to catch on do you think
?: Mmm, yeah
?: Yeah
?: I’d say so 
?: I would say it’s going to go further than this it’s going to be in television isn’t it, I mean you’re going to get a computer on telly to find, where people are scrolling through what do you call it the um Teletext
?: Well so many people have got computers now I mean you know a good percentage of people you talk to have got them and then the next obviously is to get connected to the Net, you know, everybody that I know is sort of got a computer if they’re not they’re talking about it
PL: Yeah, right
?: The thing is it’s like everything else, I mean people only use about a tiny amount of its capacity don’t they, the computers now I mean, well I use it mainly for word processing and a bit of um, [coughs] a bit of desktop publishing but I mean if you but I mean that’s just normal straightforward you know Word what is it ninety-five and the rest of it but I think this is going to be the future isn’t it I mean everyone’s going to be using it I really do believe it
?: Anyone not on it is going, is going miss out basically
PL: Do you think that’s right, do you think   
?:   I think if you think of something like Loot say for instance I mean I’ve used Loot to get cars and a couple of tents when I took the kids camping and you can come up with some real bargains so you know unless you, you, you, you know people going to use this rather than the magazines same as jobs, jobs are going to come up there  
?:   Yeah 
?: Yeah
?: Yeah, lots of jobs
?: You can slap your CV onto it  
?:   It’s like Nature and New Scientist 
?: Yeah I mean you’ll have your CV that’ll go through it and it you know I can see a lot of value in it I think it’s amazing
?: Well I’m sitting here kicking myself I’ve just seen a mitre plate on there for eighty quid I just put in a new one for three hundred quid [laughs] so you know that’s sort of what you’re going to miss out on if you don’t sort of thing
PL: But then you can buy Loot now but
?: Yeah (…) it’s just the hassle
PL: Right
?: (…) Buying it and all that bit
?: Remembering it
?: (…) Paying for it aswell
?: (…)Unless it’s at your fingertips like that you won’t be   
?:   They’re also saying that if you’re a business and you’re not on it in the future    you’re going to go under because everyone else is going to be using it and you’re going to miss out
?: I think there’s dangers to it obviously it’s very hard to legislate isn’t it I mean they’re talking about now you got pornographic stuff come in how, how do you control something that isn’t controllable you know no-one can control it no, no-one government is able to control it there are dangers to it but I think it’s a democratic thing you know
?: But we all know it’s there and the thing is if you wanted to find that out you’d go and find that out anyway wouldn’t you, you know it’s just there you know anyway you just choose to ignore it
?: I mean it is a bit frightening I mean I take your point the first time I saw a fax machine stuck this letter in and it was going to hit every branch in the country
[laughs] instantly you know you think God you know what’s happening but this is    this is the same isn’t it you know
?: There’s still  fear of computers with a lot of people aren’t they I mean my wife is still very much you know sort of frightened of using one but so was I  you know until about six or seven years ago and then I was just surprised at how easy it was
?: Is it as uncontrollable as people say or is it kind of like big brother is watching it’s
?: I think you have to control it yourself if you’ve got kids then you’re going to have to make sure they don’t   
?:   Well that’s easy enough
?: That’s easy you can block that you know,  but then kids know more about it than us don’t they [laughter] I’ve got three teenagers you know
?: My brother’s had his just over six months now and he’s going about two o’clock in the morning where he just can’t get off it he’s addicted to it
?: Yeah
?: Yeah, it’s very easy
?: I think that’s the problem isn’t it but that might be the initial phase of it you know    I think computers are addictive I mean you know when I was at work you know    people would get a boring half hour they would start playing cards, you’d see a lot seemed to play in bloody hearts or golf or something you know
?: But the Internet is incredibly addictive ‘cos there’s just anything you want to buy now is on it you know there’s no, in fact I find it a real time saver because what we do in the work group that I work in we might sort of like there’s this particular disease we work with you know like rather than what I tend to do is I tend to look you know you know sort of link to a particular website go down and find out all the new publications on this particular disease or anything related to it probably spend half an hour scrolling through you know saving everything I want to you know downloading it and then what I do is so that everybody in the work group doesn’t have to spend time doing it I just e-mail it  you know attach it and e-mail and it’s incredible you know it’s like basically the whole thing then is done within say like an hour or something like that
PL: What about those issues you were raising about like not being able to touch the food and uh not seeing the goods, what about, is that?  
?: Yeah I think it is
?: That’s important yeah
?: I think it is important I think that people it’s going to be I think people are going to make their minds up there are going to be a lot of people who’ll be able to order things but there will be certain things you, you just will want a look at you’d never buy a car, you’d never buy a car or a house off of the Internet would you, you might know where they are and have a look at them
?: I think it’s more important in terms of product information and what’s available as opposed to taking it  
?: That’s right, that’s right, yeah
?: I mean there’s still the social aspect of actually going out a lot of people like going out
?: That’s the really (…)
?: Perhaps I mean that could still work couldn’t it the actual fresh fruits and stuff but if you’ve got somebody actually physically going out and picking them out and if it’s somebody experienced who knows what’s ripe and what’s fresh and what have you 
?: Yeah but you’ve still got to trust them
?: Yeah but it’s in their favour that they do that because obviously  
?:   (…) food (…)
?: You’re, you’re going to get the delivery and you’ll look at it and you’re going to say ‘right that’s not good enough’ and you’re going to send it back
?: There are obviously problems to it and I think I think uh it’s going to alter people’s lives for sure I mean you get the fact that people working at home is going to come
?: It’s a great alternative but I’m not saying it’s a substitute
?: I think, I think where you, you were talking about medicine but, but you could imagine now doctor’s surgeries and the rest of it, you know a list of these paramedics may well take over the role in a lot of cases of GP service because that will be locked on the Internet so instead of having a doctors running around you can have a paramedic probably more of those running around linked to a GP and the networker and the list of ailments and suggested remedies coming straight up and dealing with you  
?:   (…) 
?: I mean in my, you know in BT now our guys get up in the morning, external engineers they’ve got (…) all their computerised and their jobs are laid out go on the road jump in the van it’s coming up a lot of those will be and we now laptops for doing things like um looking at manholes doing the planning working you load it in it’s instantly gone back and it’s (…) 
?: It’s quite frightening actually ‘cos you’ve got like even drivers um courier drivers when you sign for a goods you’re signing on the top half of the computer of a little miniature computer and this going through straight onto the computer you know I’m just glad I’m in the building trade there’s no computer that can do my job [laughs]
PL: What do you think it, it will take some of those jobs away 
?: Oh yeah it will take a lot of jobs away
?: My brother in law’s a Euro driver, Euro train driver although he’s yet to go across but it, the training is (…) in French it’s like a, it’s like a, it’s like a cockpit of a major aircraft in front of it you know in fact the shutters come down when you’re going into France, he don’t see it it’s all worked on that you know they’re using the Internet all the time so it’s locked into that a whole range of stuff is coming out of that you know um I can see more jobs being created  strangely enough in the service industries so I think there are fears to it but it’s a bit like anything else new that came on the (…) (2.0)
PL: What about the rights of the consumer are they going to be affected in any way? (2.0) I mean  
?:   I think you’d have to read up on them for a start [laughs]
PL: Yeah
?: I don’t know um
PL: Well yeah I mean do you think it might have a positive um effect of that kind?
?: I’d be interested to know what trading standards think of it for instance you see if you’re in a market a trading standards inspectors will go down there environmental health officers would inspect factories et cetera now  you could be ordering stuff er    from anywhere in truth couldn’t you and, and, and so those are the areas that need to be looked at you know at the moment we have a great deal of protection with all that stuff about BSE and the rest of it but nevertheless you know if you’re shopping then obviously if you’re in legitimate places like Sainsbury’s then you’ve got those safeguards but you know there are areas where the normal safeguards need to be looked
PL: Well that’s right because the, the first services are the well known you know multiple supermarkets like Tesco’s and Sainsbury’s are developing it but when we looked at the book thing there was an American book one er the Amazon book company and it’s not a real book company at all there’s never had a shop it’s just an Internet book company so that could, would develop (…)
?: (…) Sort of uh [coughs] some kind of fault with it then uh I think you know then you deal with it and just see exactly how you are affected by it and then if you find that there’s no difference then you continue with it I would think you know
PL: Well L was talking about people who might be left out of this do you think there are going to be people disadvantaged by it in a way?
?: Mmm definitely
?: Oh yeah
?: I mean not everyone’s going to be able to afford to buy a (…) it’s going to mess it up 
?: But that’s just the same as supermarkets I mean there’s lots of people who can’t use actual town supermarkets (…)
PL: Mmm
?: I would think [coughs] some of the user groups (…) to use this (…) parts could be effectively using it like older, older people, you know could actually help them in some regards will not be the people using it er you know the single parents, the people living on the estates who could actually find a value out of it and actually could say (…) they won’t be able to use it
?: I think it’d be busy people who use that though  
?:   They’d be busy  
?:   Rich people in  
?:   Busy people and the rest you know, gradually it will filter through like to everyone else but I mean my kids they’ll use it, they’ll go [coughs] (1.0) I, I, I think that that you know my, my concern would be in the areas that I said you know having control of venturing through certain areas you know buy books for instance I suppose you know if you order something or are silly enough to buy something like the Encyclopaedia Britannica off of it or something of that nature then you really are buying blind in a way aren’t you, and you’re committed yourself to a lot of money um
?: But I, I don’t think your statutory rights on something like that will be sort of compromised (…)  
?:   Only in Britain but this is, this is a global thing
?: Yeah, I think yeah
PL: That’s right you can be buying from anywhere in the world
?: What’s that America, India anywhere you know and you can’t impose your standards, it might be in Europe
?: I mean you’ll just have to know, that you’d have to know a lot of information I mean (…) reliable  
?:   I mean the alternative to doing that would have been to, I don’t know having been in those countries and actually buy them at the, while you’re there and then your statutory rights will be no different to what they were if you bought them via the Internet
?: Oh yeah
?: I think common sense is going to prevail
?: Yeah that’s right yeah
PL: Well what, do you think it’s going to be specific products that, I mean would there be a limit that, would there be things you would never imagine buying we’ve talked about cars obviously because you’d have to go and see it but you know  
?:   I think it’s unlimited
?: I don’t think, I don’t think yeah, I don’t think there’s any problem  
?:   In terms of information I think it’s unlimited
PL: Right
?: Yeah but actual purchase
?: But then again I would still say there’s no limit to what you could purchase and then it’s up to you whether you actually want to (…) 
?: ‘Cos technology will develop won’t it you’ll be able to go in on a particular product    and really look at it and you know er you know so motor car you’re going to have to go round, you’d be very foolish to buy something out of Loot first time [laughs] wouldn’t you, but you know by and large I think it’s unlimited
?: I’m also wondering if discrimination will be a problem as well ‘cos we see you had to enter your postcode in there
PL: Yeah
?: Oh yes
?: And it doesn’t mean because you’ve got a dodgy postcode that you can’t afford to get   
?:   That exists now doesn’t it that exists with insurance I live the other side I live in SE15 and like if I lived in SE22 down the road I would be paying forty pound [laughs] less on my, my but that exists now doesn’t it you know
?: I could be living in SE15 but I could have won the lottery last week and I could be rich [laughter]
?: That’s just there so they can tell you the local, how people who sell them, any sensible company is not going to divine (…)
?: Yeah, no that’s right if you’re buying something they (…)  
?:   If you’re buying insurance, if you’re buying insurance and things like that, that certainly will have an impact
?: It will yeah, yeah
?: Especially house contents insurance
?: Yeah
?: Yeah, but that’s  
?:   Car insurance
?: (…) It’s like that anyway isn’t it?
?: That’s true (…) anyway but I see it unlimited personally
?: Yeah
PL: What about the information they learn about you, you mentioned big brother um and when you go on-line can they, are you accessible can they learn things about you?
?: Without you knowing
?: You’re supposed to leave a trail all the time you (.)  
?: Also is there going to be a problem with the Internet being blocked and you can’t always get through because there’s so many people trying to use it and use the same facilities all the time you know
PL: Well you saw it was  a little slow tonight but er
?: Yeah
?: Can you imagine, can you imagine if you want to do your shopping and you’ve got like millions of people trying to use the same supermarket as you,  you’d just never get through would you?
?: It’s going to be a twenty-four hour job [laughter] we’re in the twenty-four, we’re moving into a twenty-four hour society and there’ll be times of the day you’ll just pick it won’t you like ‘oh I can’t go shopping’, I mean people I know now go shopping Sunday night because there’s hardly anyone in Sainsbury’s (…)  
?:   Well you think, you think to yourself right Sainsbury’s is open all night and on a Friday night I think it is and you go shopping  two o’clock in the morning ‘cos no-one will be in there and you go and it’s literally packed [laughter] two o’clock in the morning it is packed
PL:  You’ve got to get on the Internet [laughter]
?: Yeah, I was just noticing, no-one’s been to Tesco’s, you’re obviously all going to Sainsbury’s [laughter]
?: The thing is I think you’re going to have to reduce the cost of er on-line time I think that ‘cos it can be I mean the thing is everybody at work who is sort of linked up to the Internet can actually do it at work even if they’re linked up to the Internet at home    ‘cos you know you spend a couple of hours easy (…)
?: (…)
?: I can see a value to that is that people who work in small businesses or consultancy can actual put their sales out in a lot cheaper way  that they’d actually small cars or writing in the Press or, or, or whatever magazine they’re in you know they can actually say you know I’m the consultant this is what I do 
?: I think that advertising in newspapers and that is going to come to a halt and everyone will use the Internet instead I think that will happen
?: I don’t think it will come to a halt I don’t think everybody (…)
?: (…) It will be another
?: Yeah
PL: Well there’s only, I suppose project to some extent is fixed for advertising now
?: It’s if you can afford it yeah, I think a lot of companies will  
?:   I think the two will run parallel but obviously this is the new way it’s going you know
?: But it’d be considerably cheaper obviously to open up your own website than to advertise all over shops (…) (2.0)
?: I think in future you’ll be buying a television with this sort of  you’ll be able to get this facility on it and I’m sure that’s coming um in you know the technology is there (…) to actually build the whole linked to the television you know, I know from past experience where you could actually, so a whole range of things can come out of your television that doesn’t exist before and there’ll be like people, you’ll have all those facilities whether you use them of course will be up to you, you know
PL: You were talking about the development in BT that was a kiosk development you were talking about where you could it was like you’re in the shop and you could move around but um the graphics you get on this are a lot removed from that aren’t they, I mean do you think that’s a limitation here because we’re just getting you know tables and 
?: It’s fine for as I said single blokes won’t give a toss you know if they’ve got the money they’d much rather, click, click, click done it got me wine got me gear I know what I’m ordering [laughter] you’ll get the average housewife or bloke now because we’re all shopping who would want to go down there and they actually would like to walk down the trolley you know say a disabled person um you know used to shop now can have this facility of looking down there and that used to be there you know the idea of actually looking at the product I think is excellent you know that’s quite limiting isn’t it?
?: I suppose they could go down the shop with a camcorder and go down every avenue and put it on the Internet one day  
?:   I’m sure they will
?: If you’re ordering, if you’re ordering for instance stuff from Homebase or one of those  
?:   You could get, basically video it
?: Ikea could do it
PL: Well you can get um video  
?:   If you have a video (…) 
?: Yeah
PL: Oh yeah, well you couldn’t down load it on the Internet in time because of the
?: That’s right
PL: The time, the basic, it’s BT’s fault isn’t it? [laughter]
?: That’s right
?: There’s all these cable companies [laughter]
PL: It’s the speed, it’s a serial input and so however sophisticated this box is here you’re limited by the speed that the information comes at 
?: Yeah, well the band widths will alter and everyone’s going to be on fibre optics and then it’s going to go, then we’re going to have dishes on the moon you know (…) this is true, cables aren’t going to be in the ground
PL: Well that, but that’s like the infrastructure you know like they needed roads to develop the consumer society of the fifties, I mean that infrastructure was built by government basically (…) do you think there’s a case for that here I mean if we look for at our infrastructure here for this it’s like we’ve got a dirt track and we’re trying to build a (…)  
?: I think it must come because it’s unregulated it’s, it’s, it’s, it’s difficult and it’s and, and who’s going to sponsor it so I think governments will be involved in will start to build some structure into it I’m sure it’s going to happen you know otherwise it’s going to be like random capitalism in the nineteenth century you know we saw the de-regulations of the railways and privatisation will probably go in reverse because you can’t allow random things like this to take place it’s a bit chaotic isn’t it you know
?: I don’t know I don’t think any government’s going to go round giving everybody a dish or something like that
?: No but I think they’ll build some structure into the way you use it you know because   they  
?:   I always thought there was plenty of money in existence really for people to do it themselves (.) I mean it’s got this far when you think it’s sort of basically (…)  
?:   But that’s how things develop isn’t it you know er the first technologies in you know even look at the iron bridge gorge all that sort of thing in the industrial revolution it wasn’t built out of a straight structure it developed out of the energy of the people didn’t it’s the same as this you know, then they moved in on it
PL: Right, so this is like the steam engine
?: In a way yeah, that’s how I see it yeah
PL: Well someone mentioned about the, the loss of the social aspects of shopping do you think that’s an issue?
?: Mmm
?: (…)
?: Well I’ve been told by younger people now that they actually meet people in Sainsbury’s I can’t think of anything worse I just want to go in and get out, people actually chat to each other in the supermarket [laughter]
?: When I’m out with the kids I mean I actually quite enjoy shopping you know going around and looking around and you know actually being in there I mean (…) alternative you know if I couldn’t for whatever reason like you know I was busy or whatever yeah I’d use it ‘cos it’s an alternative rather than a substitute I’d say
?: An add-on
PL: And what about you know there was a lot of talk in the development of the supermarkets about the death the high street well the corner shop first, do you think that this is going to contribute to that sort of process?
?: It won’t help, will it  
?: Mmm, definitely not [laughter]
PL: Well hang on, hang on ‘cos the Internet originally was supposed to be about was almost the opposite of that wasn’t it, it was supposed to be this chaotic thing where big business would be able to dominate I mean is this is this not in tune with that is small business not going to be able to take (…) is big business  
?:   It depends what little business it is I mean if, if it’s a specialised thing um then there will be a consultancy I’m sure you know for councillors
PL: Services then
?: Service, sure (…)
?: (…) The corner shop is doomed isn’t it really let’s be [laughter] well it is  
?:   Well it would need to be quite an intelligent little corner shop to be on there for a start, you know
?: But what can they do, I mean they could get their own website and say right our baked beans
?: (…)
?: I suppose the only way  they could do it if they started to combine in a generalised way like Spa and then put themselves out on it but then they would be corner shops anymore they’d be part of a conglomerate wouldn’t they?
PL: That’s right there’s a great difficulty there isn’t there because Spa has a certain kind of supplier it’s like a contract to supply certain goods it’s not like a corporate organisation
?: Well look at the scenario I was saying about the Isle of Harris in Scotland there you go right down, (…) there are none but you know you’ve got little islands off it like Scalpe where you’ve got one shop and they actually and a lot stuff’s delivered from those small shops to the rural community well if they start using this they won’t be going to the local shop they’d go to the local supermarket be it forty miles away and they will employ drivers or probably contract it out to drivers, to go down and deliver those goods directly from the supermarket ergo the corner shop then is left with the occasional bag of salt and a bottle of lemonade isn’t it you know [laughter]
?: I mean I know it’s really sad but then again we all want cheaper food it’s like we demand cheaper food and you can’t have everything can you let’s face it I mean do you go to the little local corner shop and you think oh you know he’s a nice fellow you know I know he’s just trying to scrape a living or do you think I’ll go off to Sainsbury’s and save twenty-five quid on my weekly shopping?
?: Where you can get anything you could possibly want
?: That’s right yeah you know
?: Except of course down my way in (…) Road the Spa shops they’ve got two local shops one’s an off-licence and a grocer so they are surviving despite Sainsbury’s and the rest of them
?: At the moment and at the moment I think that will be the end of it 
?: (…) [laughter]
PL: It’s an interesting (…)  
?:   I don’t see how they can
?: Video shops
?: Yeah, that’ right they can’t sort of  
?:   Well no why would you bother with that when you can, when you can flick into Blockbusters? [laughter]
?: Yeah, but that’s what I’m saying (…) corner shop  
?:   Can you see those laptop things getting smaller I mean could you visualise standing at the bus stop and doing it at the bus stop
?: You can get them
PL: Well yeah you can get palm top computers now
?: Like computers um calculator size
?: (…) With Windows in them
PL: Yeah with Windows and everything it’s the same machine as this basically but if you want the key board if you want to type on it and if you want a screen you can see you don’t want it to be much smaller
?: Yeah but then you can take it work and put it into your   
?:   Those ones that are joint phone fax and uh    
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: Beware of those, the more stuff you put onto a thing the easier it is to break down
?: Yeah
PL: Yeah it does look a bit cumbersome that one, it might overload
?: That’s right, like Japan, they’ve their mobile phone on their watch
?: That’s right
?: Dick Tracey [laughter]
PL: The thing you were saying that I was interested in there’s this sort of competition for prices yeah supermarkets driving down prices through bulk buying, all that, that’s fine but in fact aren’t people aren’t they spending more and more money on consumption than they used to so although the prices of individual goods are staying down aren’t people committing themselves more and more and more to spending on goods
?: Yeah, yeah but they’re not thinking, they still want more for their money don’t they you’re just buying more that’s all you’re just buying more for your money I think you know I mean you know, I mean you know compare I think that obviously there’s a tendency to look back at the old corner shop through rose tinted specs because of the social aspects of it more than anything else but I can remember even, I’m fortyish and I remember just going down to the local shop and you know buy a tub of icecream it’s all melted all over the bottom and all that, I know that happens but at Sainsbury’s that’s it, it’s out, that will probably be in there fall out, refrozen and (…) in the corner shop
?: It’s true I think
?: You know, salmonella’s nothing you know as long as it keeps him afloat [laughter]
?: It’s true, that’s I mean, I’m with you but we’ve seen the end of the milk float you never thought in my day used to be a common thing, you never thought in my day that you’d see the end of a familiar sound like the chinking of bottles and they’re gone,    because it’s much more convenient
PL: I still have mine delivered
?: Sorry
?: I still have mine delivered
?: You still have yours delivered, you’re the one that (…)
?: But it’s on the Internet [laughter]
?: So it is changing you know and I think the corner shop may have to sell other things
PL: Right, right
?: You know (…)  
?:   (…) business for it at the end of the day
PL: Will they?
?: Yeah I don’t know I seriously doubt it 
?: Well they are surviving
?: There will always be some people that won’t want to touch anything like that I mean    there’ll always be the one or two
?: The corner shops will be selling PC’s and they’ll be selling, it’s absolutely true they will start to sell all these things like electrical goods will start coming out yeah I think things in society’s changing isn’t it?
PL: Right now what about er gender and shopping is this going to impact that I mean who does the shopping in the household?
?: I think it’s age there isn’t it because I think I mean I’m of the age group where men didn’t really shop with their wives do they but now you go through Sainsbury’s, I keep going on about Sainsbury’s but everyone shops you know men and women so maybe that’s changed but I suppose as a rule if you want to make er er I don’t know if it’s PC or anything but women tend to shop differently to men I would have thought even now they tend to make that’s what I’m saying about looking at the products more be more interested in what that affects the kids if it’s got you know if it’s got a large fat content um you know I want to balance my diet I want to look at the food I’m buying I want to go and feel it I want to touch it I want to look at it I don’t you know you can order your beer and bread and that from there but I’m going to go down and see what it’s like so I think it’s got to develop more for women to look at it I think
?: I mean the gender issue and shopping these days has changed a lot over a five ten year (…) and um but I don’t see I mean men might use the computer a bit more but that’s I don’t think that’s  
PL:   You don’t think it’ll make a difference?
?: Not for me it wouldn’t
?: [laughs] You poor cynic
PL: He is [laughter]
?: Well I think it would
PL: Well maybe a bit of cynicism is a good thing around here the picture you’re giving me is that it’s all inevitable, you’re sort of quite gung-ho about it   
?: Absolutely
?: Yeah
PL: Is that? (.)
?: It’s going to happen no matter what you say it’s going to happen
?: I think it already has, it’s moving very quickly isn’t it?
?: It’s going to happen
?: I don’t feel particularly nostalgic about the old way to be honest I don’t think there’s anything great about popping down to the corner shop to be honest [laughter]
?: (…) [laughter]
?: I mean I like going to the supermarket (…)
?: The grain market [laughter]
?: Yeah and we’re the two biggest here so that might mean something [laughter]
PL: Oh dear, alright, okay, um anything else that?  
?: Yeah could I have that notebook please [laughs] I’ll swap it for my Toshiba four eight six
PL: I don’t think so
?: No it’s alright
?: I’ve got one of those as well they’re really horrible
?: Oh god I mean by the time it’s warmed up you could have had a bath  [laughter]
(…) useless things I mean now like you get, I mean mine is what is it I think it’s a seventy-five mega hertz I mean now it’s like a 3P3 which is sort of very reasonably priced
PL: Slower in the laptops though
?: Sorry?
PL: It’s slower (…) laptops
?: Yeah, yeah
?: They can freak you out I came back from a conference in Blackpool a couple of years ago (…) put a week’s work the thing collapsed and he threw it against the side of the room [laughter] (…) well that’s technology for you we’ve written ours down you can take my report
PL: Maybe it was the content (…)
?: That’s right
PL: Crisis about what he was writing
?: (…) 
PL: I can’t believe I’m listening to this conversation
?: Well I’m supposed to be a scientist, I must have spent three hours a day on a computer you know I mean it’s like you know you don’t I mean not, not just on the Internet but sort of doing work on the computer and you tend to 
?: ‘Cos that’s the other thing, my union was very successful in running the RSI got the you know the repetitive strain injury you now when you think about it when you’ve been clicking that mouse for a few hours I bet your arm starts to ache you know  and when you get to my age you‘ll be (…) [laughs] I think there’s a real danger in sitting in front of a computer  
?: I think there is a law that your firm’s go to, (…) to get your eyes tested every so often? 
?: Oh yes 
LM: They have to pay for you  
?: Yeah they pay for it as well
?: I’m where you’re supposed to say ergonomically near the light, all those sort of things 
PL: Yeah, yeah ergonomic mouse
?: Oh we do
?: But, ‘cos people indoors don’t do they?
?: But isn’t there an attachment over the screen that you can
PL: There is yes
?: (…) It doesn’t affect your eyes too badly
?: The glare  
?: Yeah
?: Yeah but then it’s not particularly sort of covering for viewing I’ve found (…)
?: I think there’s a lot of a lot of  that’s yet to be proved ‘cos people sit in front of the television for hours without getting (…)
?: Well some people, you’re going, if you work with computers you’re going to be in front of it eight hours a day aren’t you it’s a lot longer (.) so
?: Police
?: Yeah
?: It’s the type of light you’re getting off the screen as well though isn’t it?
?: Walking cross-eyed [laughs]
?: As you say it I think my eyesight’s definitely (…) [laughter]
?: Yeah, when I was (…) I ended up with a, a sort of a light shaded pink background and white print and I found that that was the most restful other people have got green and purple
PL: I’ve got I’m trying green at the moment that’s (…)
?: You’re trying green yeah that’s quite good
PL: Green
LM: Calming
?: A calming effect is that it? [laughter]
PL: I show it to people when they come into my office
?: Or when you write your books [laughter]
PL: No there’s nothing calming about that [laughter] okay well er that’s brilliant thanks, thanks very much


Focus group 10, 31 March 1998 DE, mixed gender  


PL: Okay, so why don’t we just start by going round and just, just say give your first name and say uh what experience you’ve had with computers generally and uh what you know about um shopping, using computers for shopping on the Internet.  Do you want to start?
C: My name’s C um my kids have got the Micro Sega Master System 2 and I had to plug it in but I don’t know nothing else about it [laughter] I haven’t got a clue  
PL:   Right, fine okay 
J: Alright, my name’s J and uh I don’t really work on computers at all. My son’s got the um what’s it called, (2.0) Nintendo, no, no, no it’s a disk
?: Playstation  
PL:   Playstation?  
J:   Playstation, yeah, that’s it, I put that together
PL: Right
J: And play it
PL: Right
J: And that’s it
PL: Right okay
R: My name’s R I’ve got access to a computer at work, and Internet, but I don’t really go on it, use it
PL: Right  
R: Don’t know how to
PL: At home you haven’t?
R: I’ve got a small computer, yeah, but I’ve not got Internet
PL: Right (1.0) okay
T: My name’s T I’ve got er an organizer  
PL: Right
T:  So we got computers at work
PL: Right
T: A lot of them I don’t, I’m not interested in them
PL: Right
T: For personal reasons
PL: Right okay, okay, okay, what about this um, have you heard about this shopping?  Over the Internet business?  Has anyone heard about it?
C: I heard it on the telly, but that’s about it (…) like that  
PL: What did you hear about it?
C: Um (.)you know when they just show little clippings of things and they just said er (.)there is a shop that’s doing it but I can’t remember their name, you can shop from home   
PL:    Yeah, right
C:  You just tap out  
PL:   Yeah  
C:    On the keyboard what you want, but that’s about it
PL: Yeah (1.0) 
C: That’s the lot
PL: Anybody else heard about um
T: (…) Some of the science programmes is, it’s saying it’s going to be the way you’re going to shop in the future
PL: Right, right
T:  With this you don’t have to move from your, you just do it from your armchair and it will be delivered to you
PL: Right (…) what do you think about that idea?
J:  Laziness [laughter] it’s nice to go to the shops and have a look
PL: Right
S: Things vary don’t they, you don’t know what’s on the special offer and you know (3.0) our shops, Howard shops (…) special offers (…) and they brought out all this er when you walk into the shop you smell the bread and that  
PL:   Right  
S:   And it makes you want to buy it, or they suggest you buy the things like that, how, how they going to get that on a computer? (2.0)
?: It’s impossible [laughter] 
?: If you look  
C:   Smellyvision [laughter]
?: If you look (…) and you’re sitting at home, and you’ve got your list out and you know what you want, you’re going to sit down, you’re just going to type out exactly what you want
PL: Right
?: And that’s all you’re going to get
PL: Right
?: But when you go shopping, you look at the package and you think it looks nice, so you think I’ll try that  
?:   Yeah  
?: I mean how are you going to think it looks nice by looking at a bit of paper, on a
?: Yeah
?: Thing, yeah (1.0)
?: ‘Cos women go shopping, they only want to go to get a pint of milk and a bit of bread right and they come out with a full bag [laughter] but you wouldn’t do that on the Internet would you [laughter] so it’s like, they’re going to like lose out on it really
PL: Right and that’s like, say shopping for your groceries, and so on, but what about other kinds of shopping?
?: Yeah you don’t just shop for your groceries though do you? In fact (…) and things like that  
PL:   Well yeah what about clothes?
?: I think you’ve got to look (…) when you’ve got a catalogue, you’ve got to look at the picture haven’t you and see it I mean (.) what much can you get off there, they just, what do they do, just describe what it is? Long dress, frilly here and [laughter] button there [laughter] isn’t it?  No it sounds boring, it ain’t going to look, sound very interesting (1.0)
? : It’s not, sorry, if that (…)how would you get it back?
PL:  Well I suppose  
?:   (…) Wouldn’t it   [laughter]
PL: (…) Well I suppose it would be like catalogue shopping you, you’d be able to send it back
(…)
?: I’d still rather go into the shop and look around 
PL: Yeah
?: I don’t like the thought of that, that computer business, no, that’s just for lazy people, that’s probably people look, like have got their own businesses and they haven’t got time to shop 
PL: Right
?: Yeah and you have to buy the line aswell (1.0), know what I mean?
PL: What the telephone line to (…)?
?: Yeah (4.0) 
PL: Well shall we have a look at um, we’ve got, we’ve got a computer here, we can sort of show you some of the (.) er ways in which you can shop instead of going to the shop for and you can see what (…)
?: Yeah (5.0)
?: Better turn the light off I can’t see it [laughter]
LM: (…)
PL: Oh yeah
LM: (…)
?: That’s better in it, can you see that?
T: Yep
?: No worries
?: Yeah that’s better (8.0)
PL: Alright (4.0) okay (2.0) so yeah um (1.0) okay what I’m doing is I’m just getting the computer to dial up (10.0)
?: Is this just like one of them, with the I, I, the screen and the keyboard and that, course that’s what that is but I mean, up to date thing  
LM:   Yeah (…) yeah
?: Right it’s one of them without the telly screen and the keyboard in front is that what it’s like that?
LM: Yeah, yeah, a laptop one
?: Yeah, that’s what my kids keep asking for
?: So expensive aren’t they?
?: (…)
?: Yeah (2.0)
?: Hello
PL: Hiya (2.0) (…) In properly (15.) (…) I wonder if they’re on the phone out there
LM: I’ll go and check
[Background noise while she goes to check and computer is sorted out]
PL: Alright, now what we’ve got on here, this programme that we can (1.0) find the sites that the local shops have (2.0) [coughing] what we’ve done earlier is gone through and, and (.) stored some of the addresses that of these different shops here er and so here we are, you can see what we’ve got, um Barclay Square , BT, Tesco, Sainsbury’s , (…) bookshops, CD Now (5.0), um Marks and Spencer, Legal and General  
?:    Er so what about that, record shop, say  
PL: Do you want to try that?
?:    I wanted to buy a record
PL: Okay
?: ‘Cos that’s, that’s, that’s one thing that I don’t like doing
PL: You move, move this to find it and then click that one when you’re on
?: Alright then
PL: Yeah, (2.0) now it’s going off to find it, that site
?: Yeah, ‘cos you usually know what kind of record that you, you definitely want  
PL:   Mmm
?: And you didn’t have to go looking for them  
PL:   Right
?: And then they haven’t got them when you go down there
PL: Right (3.0)
?: Right, so what do I have (…)?
PL: It’s still, it’s still loading, disks are like that, it takes a while to get the information going
?: (…) America
PL: Yeah it’s an American company (2.0)
?: Is it expensive to have the Internet? (3.0)
PL:  Well, er there’s the cost of the computer itself first and then you’ve got to pay to be connected to the Internet, er  
?:   (…)  
PL:   And it varies but about £15 a month or so
?: And how much is it hourly if you’re on it for an hour  
PL:   And then you, then all you, er where, where, it’s as if we’re on the phone now, it’s a local call
?: Oh right
?: Oh
PL: But it’s like you, you, so you’ve paid for your time as if you were speaking on the telephone, making a local call
?: Even though it’s going to America?
PL: Yeah  
?:   (…)
?: That’s good innit?  
PL: Even though it’s coming from America  so you can, who do you want to  
?:   (…) Rock or pop
PL: Right, or you can  
?:    No no
PL: You can actually put the  
?:    Oh right  
PL:   If you’ve got a particular artist  
?:   Oh yeah, OK 
PL:   Or album in mind, you can click on here and
?: Right, what, what, what shall I put in then?
?: Album
?: Whatever
?: Right er
?: Compilation (…) (3.0)
?: I’ll do James Taylor, do I write it on that part there?
PL: If you can click in this box here and that’s it, yeah and now you write James Taylor in (8.0) okay (7.0)
?: Core text?
PL: No (…)
?: Is that alright?
PL: Yeah that’ll be enough, and then say find it (2.0) security warning (5.0) here we go (6.0) so again it’s going off now searching through its catalogue
?: Yeah (.)
PL: And here we go
?:  (…) So where’s that new one they put out then?
PL: I don’t know (5.0) (…) Is that the one you (…)?
?: Yeah, yeah add that, go on
PL: (…) Or at that one there? (3.0)
?: Are these the albums they’re showing?
J: Yeah
PL: Yeah (2.0)
?: No, go on go up, keep going up ‘cos there’s, there’s a, there’s a new one out (…) Yeah there is one that I want to actually get (3.0)
PL: No, that’s all they’ve got 
?: Ah, I think it’s mission impossible (3.0)
PL: (…)
?: (…)
?: Do they give you samples down the Internet? (.)
PL: Yeah we’ll have a go at that (…)  
?: Does it, does it tell you what’s, what’s on the album as well?
PL: (…) Press C  (7.0) A bit of advertising to keep you going (.) oh here we are (2.0) which one is it? (.)
?: Mission impossible
PL: Oh there it is, so I think we can try and hear a bit of it, shall we try and do that? (6.0) Takes a long time (18.0) right which one do you want? (…)
?: Yeah
PL: Yeah (7.0)
?: I can hear my stomach now [laughter] (…) hunger
?: Oh that is excellent man, isn’t it?
PL: Yeah, is it going to work? (4.0) [music]
?: That sounded good [laughter]
?: Buy that
PL: Ah, it says here look, net congestion, (…) buffering so it can’t, it’s got congestion on it
?: Someone else’s responsibility [laughter]
PL: Someone else’s [laughs] several thousand people are listening to something (12.0) well (3.0)  it’s disconnected for some reason (3.0)
?: Yeah it is a good thing, for, for the buying of the records, because I hate going in them shops and looking round
PL: Right
?: Waiting for an hour at the information desk
?: Can’t we have a go at Sainsbury’s or something  
PL:   Oh yeah  
C:   Where we all go, is that alright?
PL: Yeah (5.0)
?: Do we all use Sainsbury’s? Or somewhere like that?
PL: Actually  
?:   Marks and Spencers
?: Well Marks’ then [laughter] Marks’
?: Yeah any of them Sainsbury’s  
PL: I’ll tell you what I’ll show you, I’ll show you Tesco’s, I mean we’ll, we’ll look at Marks and, and Sainsbury’s
?: Yeah, just to see
PL:  But, they, they, they haven’t got sites where you can actually shop yet, um  it’s just like information  
?:   Oh right
PL: About the company whereas Tesco’s has a, a site, well we can, we can go let’s go to Marks and show you that, er where is it yeah?
?: Yeah
PL: Show you what that, their site is like, but then it’s not they’ve not started actually shopping over the net  
?: Right (2.0)
PL: Here we go (5.0)
?: (…) Have to take a course in computers now I think
PL: Yeah [laughter](9.0) Oh
?: You can buy meals
PL: Yeah [laughs] (4.0)  we’ve been listening [laughter] (.) well they’ve got different things, this is their home page (1.0) about Marks and Spencers worldwide, don’t know what that is, careers, annual report, financial services
?: (…) Find out, just go into the shop to shop innit (…)  
PL:    Yeah  
S:   (…) Annual report (…)
PL: That’s right
?: Here, go for the worldwide, let’s see  
PL:   Okay  
?:    Where they’ve got Marks and Spencers in
PL: Different areas of the world I suppose
?: Yeah, see where they’ve got them (2.0) just in case I go on holiday I might need one [laughter]
PL: There’s one in Paris (.) Ah there we go (laughs) there’s a map it’s not very clear is it?
?: No 
PL: I wonder if it’s a, sometimes these maps that are (…) I don’t think this one is (2.0) doesn’t look like it (3.0) anyway, oh look they have six hundred and twenty five locations worldwide 
?: Mmm believe it (2.0)
PL: In Hong Kong (1.0) eighty-five
?: What sort is that, in in is that Morocco or something?
PL: Er, yeah it looks like it doesn’t it? 
?: Ah no, I don’t believe it, do you know how I’m looking at this, I’m looking like as if the green is the land, right [laughs]
PL: Oh I see
?: [laughs]I mean all on the outskirts, now I was wondering why  
PL:   (...)  
?:   Sea [laughs] (6.0)
PL:  Alright  
?:   Look there you are right there underneath Spain, you’ve got a Marks and Spencers  
PL:   Yeah  
?:   In Morocco, it looks like  
PL:   Yeah  
?:   Don’t it?  
PL:   Yeah it looks like it doesn’t it? Or maybe its Gibraltar I can’t get the, it’s not a very detailed map is it?  
?:   Yeah  
PL:   So that, so they’re not actually, you know, you can’t buy stuff yet, but it’s like information about the company, if you want to find out about it all
?: Show us one where we can shop
PL: Um okay [laughter] well I’ll show you one where you can do something, er that’s like er, Loot 
?: That’s the paper innit?
PL: Yeah come on you can have a go
?: Oh no, no I can’t, no I’m not having a go at this, ’cos I’ll end up messing it all up
PL: No, you can’t mess it up  
?:   I ain’t got a clue
PL: Well this is, this is Loot right, so here’s the paper, this is like, this is, is the home page, when whenever you go to an Internet site you get into the home page, and then you can (.) do different things, like here sell it or find in, Loot New York  
?:   Yeah what do you want to (…)  
PL:   So let’s   
?:   What am I looking for?
PL: Let’s have a go, yeah, find it with Loot
?: Um let’s have um holiday homes, caravans, that’s what I’m looking for I’m being awkward now aren’t I? [laughter]
PL: No, that’s fine (1.0) so here we go (5.0)
?: See where it says that credit blacklisted would that go into it and show your name up?
PL: Ooh  
?: (...)
PL: Try that
?: Where does it say that?
PL: There look
?: Oh yeah
PL: Credit (.) blacklisted I’ll see if I am (4.0) ooh (5.0) ah right so it’s some information about a place where you can ring up to find out if you are blacklisted or not
?:Yeah so is that saying that it will cost you an extra four  
PL:   Your own personal credit  
?:   Fifty on your phone bill
PL: Oh does it?
?:  Yeah
?:  Where does it say that? 
?: I can’t see
PL: Oh that’s how they get the information, for, for, that’s how they get the money for giving you all the information  Oh yeah  (4)  They charge one pound per minute
?: One pound per minute
PL: And you have to wait while you  
?:   Yeah, yeah  
PL: Receive your personal credit score (…) find out if you’re already  
T:   (…)
?: (...) or whatever it is
PL: Yeah, that that’s right
?: I tried to get a kitchen once at MFI and they said to me I was blacklisted, but I’ve never been I’ve never had anything on HP before or nothing like that, and I’ve run a couple of catalogues and they’re alright, I said ‘can you tell me why?’ I was really shocked
?: Mmm
?: And they said ‘well we can’t tell you, you have to get in touch with them yourself’
PL: Yeah
?: Probably your address then and not you
PL: Sometimes it is like that  
?: People who lived there before been blacklisted, it goes on to your address
?: Yeah it might have done
?: Or block of, do you live in a block of flats?
?: Yeah (5.0)
?: I was blacklisted, but when I got my catalogue they come back with the wrong name, they’d got it wrong [laughs]  but I am seriously quite annoyed (…)  
?: It’s a bit embarrassing innit? ‘Cos like they’re saying all this instant nought percent and all that, yeah I thought do it that way, and then when they said ‘oh no we’re sorry you can’t’ I said, and I was really shocked, ‘but why can’t I?’  And they said ‘oh we can’t tell you, you have to get in touch with them yourself’ (6.0)
PL: Alright, so where were we, we were in Loot weren’t we?
?: I thought you said Tesco’s done them
PL: Yeah, I’ll show you that in a minute (5.0) Right, so here we go  (...)  
T:   (…) A holiday home, caravan  
PL:   Caravan
?: Yeah (2.0) (…) Does it go abroad and (.) the UK, I want UK (.) (...) That’s what it says in there don’t it, I think?
PL: Well you can, you  
?:   Yeah  
PL:   Can choose here which papers you search
?: Oh right
PL: So you want L don’t you?
?: No, I want er Kent
PL: Kent?
?: Yeah with a caravan  
PL:   Where’s Kent? [laughter] Ah here it is okay so let’s see if there’s a caravan in Kent, probably will be won’t there? (7.0) So, searching for a caravan in Kent
?: Got a piece of paper and pen? [laughter]
?: What would happen if you spelt caravan wrong there?
PL: Well it wouldn’t be able to find anything
?: It wouldn’t, no 
PL: (...)
?: It wouldn’t guess what you were saying and, give you an option?
PL: Here we go, so there’s one here, an Atlas Avation  
?:   Carry on  
PL:   Ninety-eight pounds not interested in that one?
?: No
PL: A Chorus sixty four in (...), a Dorset (...)
?: No, no, carry on
PL: What are you after?  
?:   Just looking at what I’m looking at, the ten thousand [laughs] (...)  
?:   I know where I want it
PL: Oh you want it  
?:   Oh here we are, here we are
PL:   From a particular place?
?:   No, I don’t want to use churches  
PL: St Oseths?  Oh it’s a, oh it’s a nice place St Oseths
?: Yeah, right stop
?: Are you looking at Dymchurch?
?: No Kent (...)
PL: There’s three in Kent
?: Yeah
PL: Dymchurch, Sheppey and Mazedon
?: Be back in a second 
?: (…)
PL: So what you can do then is you can put [door slams] you can put it on your clipboard, it’s like having a list  
?: Mmm (3.0) [door re-opens]
PL: And that’s, so that’s on the clipboard and then you can  [door slams] look at the clipboard and I can never find the clipboard (10.0)
?: There it is with your clipboard on the side
PL: Oh yeah (3.0) and that’s got the information about that thing, and you can go through and put a number of them on the clipboard and then, if this were attached to a printer you could print it out and then you’d have all the information (...) that’s the number
?: That’s cheap
PL: It is isn’t it, six berth chalet, it’s a chalet
?: Yeah, that’s cheap  
?: So could you be sitting there in your house right, look at that there and it’s all plugged in and then pick up your phone and phone them? So it would, wouldn’t interfere with it?
PL: Oh yeah, you’d have to, if you if you had one phone line you have to come off this
?: Oh so you’d  
?:   Yeah  
?:   Have to have two phone lines then?
PL: Or you could have two phone lines, yeah
?: Oh
PL: Or, just, when we close this down, now I’ll show you Tesco’s now (1.0) so if we close this down
?: That’s cheap
PL: It’s very good isn’t it?
?: For a seven year lease
PL: Is that? Right
?: Yeah I’m trying to find out (...) ‘cos on my site it’s not um, they’re not leasehold
?: Oh I know who that is (.)[cough]
PL: So here we’ll disconnect and we’ll come off the phone line now. So here’s Tesco’s (3.0) there
?: That looks really smart (...)
PL: It does doesn’t it
?: Have to have her shopping on the Internet then wouldn’t have to go shopping [laughs]
PL: [laughs] So this is what you get, now this is to do your searching for your, for your groceries,  so what do we, what do we want to buy?
?: Frozen foods?
PL: Okay we’ll go in there  
?: Got enough variety in that, ain’t you?
PL: And you get a list here, (1.0) beefburgers, bread, garlic bread, special bread, vegetarian burgers, cakes, which one do you fancy? (2.0) Fish cakes, cod, fish fingers, let’s have a look at that, we’ll go there and there’s all the different kinds of fish fingers that they have (.)
?: And the price
PL: And the price, yeah
?: What happens if some of them are on special offer, how do you know that?
PL: Ah well let’s, if we just order some Birds Eye fish fingers  
?:   But that ain’t how much it is is it, that’s per (.) what do they  
PL:   Er  
?:   Or do they, is that the packaging  
PL:   That’s per four hundred grammes, yeah, that’s (...)  
?:   (…) fish fingers  
PL:   Yeah, that’s it
?: (...) Cod
PL: So then what we do is we click there and it puts it in your shopping trolley for you, and then you can check what’s in your shopping trolley  
?:   What have you, why have you had to, what you’ve had to click on fish?
PL: Yeah and  
?:   Any of that lot  
PL: Yeah, anywhere along that line
?:  Oh right
PL: And then you go back to your check list here, which is our shopping list, which we built up by searching and clicking  
?:   Mmm, mmm  
PL:   And then it puts it in your shopping and then you’ve got your list here, one we’ve been building up, so what was that fish fingers  
?:   And it’s got your price, how much your shopping comes to?
PL: Yeah, that’s the total there  
?:   Yeah  
PL: Building up a total here and then it just adds it automatically to that and it you want to do more, say you want two chocolate spreads you can click on  
?:   When they have new varieties of different stuff out here, innit, how do you know, you could go along and there’ll be six tins of baked beans all different, you know all different varieties, and there could be one going on a special offer that day and you think well I want that not that, you can’t do that on this could you?
PL: Well er  
?: You got to stick to the same stuff every week when you do your shopping
PL: You can do, well, what you do is, you, you download the information on Tesco’s, all the products that are in your local store, on every product that is in your local store, and you can update that every month, so you’ve always got the current stock that is in your shop and then what you can do is you can check, you can, because we’re not actually connected to the Internet now, you can connect up to Tesco’s and check and then they’ll tell you what the actual prices are, so you can check your special offers that way, or you can ask for promoted, see they’ve got one on for example chocolate spreads so you can get the promotions there, on there,  try that (...)  
?: Time you’ve spent fiddling about doing pressing this button and that button see what’s on special offer and all, be quick, by the time you’ve done all that you could’ve been in the shop and picked up six items, innit?
?: Depends what you’re doing at home, you could have children at home, can’t go out or something
PL: Right
?: Oh yeah
?: Or if you’re house bound
PL: Yeah. (2.0) And when you’ve when you’ve got your list together you just send it down the line [coughs] and it orders it
?: But how do you pay for it, direct debit or something?
PL: Yeah, or er Switch card
?: Oh right, so if you’re only paying for the Internet every month, could you not pay your bill on the Internet bill?  So that instead of just charging for the (...) charge for your shopping as well
PL: Yeah well, the Internet is just erm , like anyone in the world can connect to the Internet
like we’ve just done, so if we wanted to (…) set up a site here, so for example we could have [coughs] room now and plug it into the computer and then anyone in the world could look at us talking
?: Mmm
PL: So anyone can go on the Internet, and so when you connect to someone you’ve got to pay them directly, the Internet doesn’t work as a sort of, you know doesn’t work as a sort of as a as a service, it’s just sort of thousands of computers connected to each other, and anyone can go on it or come off it so you pay Tesco’s directly
?: Oh right, so you can just have a direct debit account where they take it out, Tesco,s take it out whenever  
PL:   Well that’s a good, that’s a great idea they actually  
?:   You don’t want to move do you? [laughter]
PL: No, it’s a great idea though actually, they’re thinking of trying to develop that on the Internet, whereby people like have a have an account
?: ‘Cause you can do computer banking can’t you?
PL: Yeah right no it’s a good idea. They are, they’re developing it, they, they, so you’d have an account with so much money in it, credited from your bank account say and then you can just [cough] use that to pay whatever you saw on the Internet, I think it’s a good idea
?: How do you know they’re not fiddling you though?
PL: Well, just in the same way that you don’t know whether your bank is (…)  
?:   Yeah  
PL:   You get your statements and it goes through the, (2.0) well what do you think?
?: I don’t like the thought of that
PL: What the money thing?
?: Well everything  That’s being, okay so some people are house bound, or that’s, that’s good for them ‘cause they can’t get out to the shops and that, personally I would even if I was, I’m not being funny, even if I was in a wheelchair, I would expect, I would ask someone to take me round the shops in the wheelchair still ‘cause (.) I don’t see the lo, alright the logic in it really I’d like to see what I’m getting. You can’t see what you’re getting there  And if you look at the package (.) something you think ’oh that looks nice, I’ll try that’, you can’t say ‘oh, I like, I like that, I’ll try that’, no, I don’t like the thought of it
PL:  Yeah
?: Do you want to turn it back on to the menu see what else you can get?
PL: Do you want another go? 
?: Yeah, (...) sit here (…)
PL:  What would you like to see next then? We’ll turn Tesco’s off shall we? We’ve seen that
(4.0)
?:  (...) in the index then?
PL: I’ve just got to connect this up again (8.0)
?: See things like books, that’s another good one innit?
?: What about what’s on at the cinema, it will do that aswell won’t it?
PL: I don’t know if it can do, can find out about what’s on at the cinema
?: I think (…) [coughing] or whatever
LM: I don’t think they’ve got what the actual cinemas have got, like, but yeah you can find like Time Out, or something like that (...)
PL: (…) the phone line now (13.0) No, can’t connect again (.) so who do you think this um, who do you think’s going to use this (.) kind of service, Internet service?
?: People that are working a lot , business people I think
T: People who’ve got a computer
PL: Yeah they have to have a computer
?: Obviously
T: Not a lot of people have got a computer so (1.0)
PL: Well more people are getting them I suppose, you think over time?
T: Suppose the more time goes on, the more cheaper things are getting
PL: Yeah
T: (…) so, it’s like the calculator
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: (…)
?: There’s one in the Argos for um, ‘cause I kept looking at them, ‘cause my kids, my kids want ‘em badly, ‘cause they’ve both got them in school, in their nursery and in the school and they, they love ‘em. How can I, thousand pounds, thousand pounds for a computer, oh no I can’t do that, it’s like, it’s a toy to them really innit, a thousand pounds for a toy. Then there was one in um, I think it was Argos for six hundred and ninety nine, but I mean I haven’t got a clue what I’m looking at anyway I mean I could think I’m getting a bargain there and it could, I could end up paying for something that I don’t really, you know what I mean?
PL: Mm, mm
?: Yeah, you have to go to, if you don’t know nothing you have to go to a shop and ask the bloke which one do you think’s the best for you and all this lark and  
?:   How do you know they won’t con you? 
?: And then you say to him can I connect this that and the other to it and can I build it and all this lot and they say yeah and you just got to trust them
PL: Yeah
?: And then you get home with the computer and realise it’s absolutely the wrong one you’ve got, in two months time all the new stuff that’s coming out and you can’t even put it on your computer (.) know what I mean, you can never ever trust like a salesman
?: So what, would you have to sell up? Knowing me right, I haven’t got a clue I don’t even know, well, would I have to do a course, or go somewhere to find out all the information about these things before I can [laughs] go out and buy one?
PL: Yeah I suppose that’s right, if you haven’t actually had any experience of computers at all before you actually go to buy one you’d have to have a way of finding out  
?:   What a course or something or? [coughing]
PL: There are courses around
?: (…) a friend to help you along (.) I’ve got a few friends who’ve got em yeah, but I haven’t got a clue
?: But I were looking at Which magazine because that’s excellent, but I don’t know if they’ve brought out a computer one
PL: Yeah, that’s  
?:    Which they anything you want to buy they’ve got it in Which magazine, it comes out every, every month they’ve got something different in there, but I’ve seen the computer one in the er  
PL: Well that would be good if they, if they produce one (…)
?: Yeah
PL: But as you were saying earlier they’re developing them all the time (...)
T: Buy a model now and in six months time it’ll be obsolete, [laughs] can’t get any bits for it
?: And in a couple of years time it’ll crash won’t it?
?: (…) [laughs] for another two years (3.0)
PL: Alright, yes I think to a (…) degree that’s true, but I mean, yeah, do you think it would be, I mean do you think people will go for it?
?: I think so (1.0)
T: It’s, it’s a new idea isn’t it, it’s like a novelty at the moment
PL: Right
T: So like most things that are novelties you say ’I won’t do it’, but in years to come  
?:    It’s gone off  
T:   You’ll be typing away on it, because it’ll be the normal thing to do
PL: It’s alright, it’s just the screen saver
?: Oh right
?: I think most shopping like, when you go shopping like for gifts and things like that you think, like you like browsing around shopping, you’d never be able to do that, I think it’s only for tedious things that you don’t like doing
PL: Yeah
?: I think it’ll be people that don’t like shopping, you know when you get some people who don’t like shopping full stop, they’d be, that would be ideal for them, ‘cause they don’t like shopping, but I like to browse and I like to look at what I’m getting, so I don’t, I would never shop I don’t think on the Internet, ‘cause I like to shop, but if people that hate shopping and going out for food or out clothes shopping, that’d be ideal
PL: Yeah (4.0)
?: I suppose when you go in the supermarket and you spent too much money mean, you just want to cry [laughter] and ’will you take something back please’ like [laughter] there’s a snobby cow right behind you with a great big trolley load (.) you can’t do nothing. (2.0) Yes, I think that the er the scanner thing there I can add it up as I go round, that’s good, take it away as well [laughs](5.0)
PL: A lot of you were saying that you were a bit worried about the money (…). Do you pay by credit card? Is that a concern that you’d be able to put your number in, your credit card?
?: Mm, ‘cause anyone can get hold of it then couldn’t they?
PL: Well, I don’t know I mean  
?:   Well if they can listen in on your, your conversations they can get all your information
?:  I think they can do that with cashpoint machines can’t they aswell?
PL: Mm
?:  (...) nosey next door neighbour knows exactly what you’ve bought from the shop, you know what I mean [laughter] (1.0)
?: Yeah, I’ve got um, I’ve got my mate’s mobile phone on the radio, once I was playing about with it  I got her on the radio and I taped her and you should have heard what she was saying about me (...) it was terrible [laughter], but I, I arranged for my brother to scrub the tape off (…) [laughter]
?: My um cousin her neighbours they were having a right ding dong over (...) and she heard it on her baby’s monitor (.) only a baby monitor what you plug in
?: Yeah
?: She, oh, she heard them having a right ding dong next door (2.0)
?: Yeah you can imagine it you’re telling your sister that you ain’t really got that much money and then her mate comes round and says ’yeah she just bought a caravan’ (…)  
  [laughter]  
?: (…) couldn’t they really, (2.0) So, yeah, if people can look into your business and what you’re buying I think that’s a bit too nosey
PL: Right
?: ‘Cause they would [laughter]
?: But then wouldn’t you look into other people’s business? Wouldn’t you get tempted?
?: No I haven’t got time for that  
?:   Yeah, I would [laughter] (.)
?: Yeah perhaps everyone could (...) couldn’t they?
?: (…) walking round the shop really isn’t it, know what you’ve got in your basket
PL: That’s true
?: (…) whole lot [laughter] don’t they?
PL: I don’t know if you could do that (…)
?: Yeah you know what you bought from this (…) and that  
?:   (…) bank account (2.0)
PL: Yes that’s right ‘cause those bank accounts you can do banking now on credit card (2.0)
?: So you don’t know who’s got access to what, I mean I don’t even know who’s allowed to have access to my bank account really
PL: No
?: You don’t do you? (.)What kind of people do nowadays, listening on your phones (1.0) anything really, a police helicopter could be right outside your window and see exactly what you’re doing, look at, see what book you’re reading in the front room, you know what I mean, couldn’t they? It’s like (.) if it was more, if they had like a privacy thing on it
PL: Right, right
?: That would be good
PL: Right, right I think they’re working on that to try, try and find ways of (coughing) making it secure
?: A you a computer whizz kid then?
PL: No
?: But the Internet’s got like [laughter] a pin number, hasn’t it?
PL: Sorry?
?: It’s got a PIN number, so no-one else can access it
PL: Yes, that’s, that’s one way they’re doing it, um so you have a PIN number like with your, card and machine, so that once you’ve set that up no one else can get in, except with that PIN number, of course you can find out from your mates I suppose, there are ways around it
?: Yeah but what about things that you don’t want people to access into  
?:   You don’t put it on there [laughter]
?: No that, that you can get through the Internet, ‘cause I don’t know if it’s true, but someone said that you can just type in the word ’porn’ or whatever and it’ll come up, can you do that? Is that true?
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: Yeah (…) [laughter]
?: (...) illegal, that’s why (…) do it
?: Yeah
?: So if like if you’ve got the Internet right and the kids are using it as well, ‘cause it wouldn’t just be you it’d be the whole family wouldn’t it?
PL: You can, but what you can do is you can set up the program so that er using passwords so that um you can, so your kids can only do certain things on it
?: Oh that’s alright
PL: Or you might not want your kids using the Internet much, so  
?:   My daughter’s just gone on the Internet in her school, we had to sign a, a bit of paper you know  
?:   Oh right  
?:   You know to thingy yeah, to talk to someone at um, oh crikey where was it? (4.0) I’m trying to think where it was now, it was somewhere (...) great to have a friend that far and you don’t know what they look like, it was like a pen friend yeah I like things like that, and a little boy who’s in the nursery and stuff he says ’I’m playing with a mouse, I’m playing with a mouse’ [coughing] things like that
PL: So what do you think that today’s kids, are they gonna think  
?: Definitely
PL: Do this (…)?
?: That’s all it is now innit?
T: (...) they’re the ones going to school and learning everything, when we went to school we didn’t have computers (...)
 ?: We didn’t have a calculator
?: Mm (.)
T: But this will be used to them
?: (...)
PL: And the price of computers will  
T: Drop (.)
?: If you think about it they’ve done it in a really clever way, ‘cause like a couple of years ago right kids computer games like that like what they’ve got nowadays was nonexistent,  now all of a sudden they’re aiming the whole thing at kids and like near enough every child has got a computer game, they know how to do it and they know all the wording and everything and they’ve just got it all set up nicely for the future, ain’t they really? (1.0)
PL: So the kids’ll all,  have all the skills and knowledge and that (…) 
?:   Yeah it’s just like a different, a new way of life really innit
?: It’s like us though working videos and televisions, our parents probably can’t work them but we can
PL: Yeah (1.0)
?: My little girl she’s only got a, a Micro System Two, I mean we’ve had it years and my, I’ve got two brothers and they’ve had they got disk um Sony Playstation last Christmas, they sold it just before Christmas this year to pay for to pay for their Nintendo Sixty Four, well, look in a couple of months time there’ll be another one out, they’ll be selling the Nintendo Sixty Four to pay for that, and my little girl has never ever said ’I want the Sony, I want the Nintendo, I want this I want that’, which I’m quite lucky, I’m really pleased at, she loves hers, (.) you know her Super Micro System, and my little boy he was too, he was playing on it, but I think they’d love one of them, both of them would love one
PL: Though you were saying that they’re using them at school or?
?: Yeah, my little girl’s got two in her room, er and the little boy has got one in his nursery. She loves it, but it, because it’s like a big class of thirty odd you know, they sort of like once a week they’re lucky if they’re on it
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: (...)
?: Yeah (4.0)
PL: What about um, I mean do you think there’s anything that we should be concerned about, about (...) you’re all agreed that it’s going to be bad (…) do you think that’s a matter to be concerned about?
?: I think it’s bad for your eyes is it, ‘cause I mean I don’t wear glasses or nothing, but I was having a struggle and it’s ‘cause it’s a little screen but I was having a struggle looking at it, well you know catching the words and everything I mean imagine having, straining to look at it and you end up with a headache
PL: Right
?: Yeah it’s, it’s like there’s more communication with this Internet, but it it’s really not proper communication is it really, I mean (...) talk now
?: It makes you unsociable doesn’t it (...) screen
T: (…) just society (…) everyone’s going to become lazy, sitting around (.)
?: Getting that way now isn’t it, (…)
?: You’re sitting in a pub right, and you have like a little computer pager thing right, and you’re going ‘Do you want a pint, right?’ and it’ll be [laughter] (…) do you know what I mean?
?: Yeah it’s like if it’s really loud in the pub, you can just like put it over to the barmaid, ‘two gin and tonics please’ [laughter]
?: Get on the Internet and say ’get a round in’ (…)
?: They’ll have one on every bar and at every table in the pub soon won’t they?
?: Yeah, you just tap in what you want  
?:  You get some cafes don’t you?  
?: (...)
PL: Yeah that’s right, they have Internet cafes, don’t they? I’ve not been to one of those but  
?: My friend went to one at the back of Oxford Circus, where every table got um they’ve got phones and you chat up, to the other, chat the other person up on the table
?: Yeah
?: Fantastic
?: Is that what it is, I don’t I’ve never been there but she said it’s lovely, she said you’re chatting away to these fellas and saying how you look and all this, they don’t know who they’re talking to [laughter] I said ’I’ll have to try that’ [laughter]
?: Yeah, my friend went in there and er she picked up the phone and said to the guy, she kept on saying to everybody like, ’do you charge for sex?’ [laughter]
?: They’re saying ‘who’s this then, who’s this?’ [laughter]
?: The computer’s doing that to them
PL: Yeah, I think you can (…) dating packages and ways of connecting people
?: What’s the um, I told you I was thick, what’s the disk for then? If you’ve got that, what’s the  
PL:   What the CD thing?
?: Yeah, what are they for then?
PL: Oh right
?: ‘Cause is this just the basic thing then?
PL: No, this one’s got a CD player  
?:   Oh right  
PL:   You drop the CD in there  
?:   So what does the  
PL:   So like the Tesco’s program
?: Yeah  
PL:   That’s, the program’s loaded on to the computer, but they sent it in the post, their CD in and then we put the CD in and then loaded the program on to the computer
?: Oh right  
PL:   There’s one where you use it, that they can (.) send you a CD and that’s got all the information [coughing] you need to run the program on [coughing] and that’s how they’re going to do it, they were thinking at one point of just sort of like sending these CD’s out in the post (.) to you know, ‘cause it’s expensive to find out who’s got a computer, it’s cheaper in the long run just to send everyone one [laughs]
?: (...) cheap to make
PL: They’re very cheap yeah, cost about 10, 15p or something like that (1.0) but they er might do that I suppose
?: (...) in their store, just pick up
PL: Yeah right (...) I don’t think they’re doing it in this area yet, but they, it’s sort of spreading through L (…)
?: Can you book holidays and stuff on that?
PL: Yeah, (2.0) er we’ve got Thompson’s on there, you can go to Thompson’s site  
?:   Literally book your ticket?
PL: Yeah, yeah
LM: Yeah, I think so
PL: (...) up there, you know in their special offer holidays, you know the ones that like if you go like tomorrow, you can get a really cheap deal, they’re up there
?: It’s like (…)
PL: Yeah
?: Yeah, it’d be good, places like the inside of the plane and like in the cinema ’where do you want to sit’ [laughter]
PL: That would be great wouldn’t it
?: Yeah  
PL:   You could just  
?:   I want to go right at the front [laughter]
?: (…) if no-one’s sitting there 
?: Next to that man who’s driving [laughter]
PL: Yeah, no that would be good, you can, I think you can book your tickets but you can’t (.) say what seat you want (…)
?: Same as over a telephone then
PL: Yeah, yeah, yeah well, that’s, that’s the thing isn’t it, that it’s sort of like, there’s more and more shopping done over the phone anyway, like your mail order, um (...) it’s like an extension of that really
?: Will they have anything, is it like straightforward or will it have annoying things on it that makes you stay on it for bloody longer and you’re spending more money? You know like, you just done all your shopping and they’re saying now can we interest you in this special offer (...) get off, get off, I don’t want to know about these special offers, I just done my shopping and that’s it, you know what I mean, well do you think they’ll do that?  
PL:   Well er, yeah er no well right yeah, well at the moment it’s sort of quite passive, you know, you sort of go, you see the sites there then go and make your inquiries and say ’I want this’ and go and they send it to you, but what they’re thinking of trying to develop is what they’ll probably push advertising, they’ll go, they’ll go, literally do that, they’ll have information about you from the way you’ve used the computer  
?:   Yeah  
PL:   And then push adverts to you, they know that you like this sort of stuff ‘cause they’ve got your previous shopping lists and stuff, and they’ll say ’oh how about this, would you like some of this?’, and that is just coming in, they (...)
?: It’s the (...) lazy bit that I don’t like
?: Eventually you’re going to need a licence like you do a television if you’re connected to so much on it
PL: Yeah that’s right, they’re thinking of er well when digital, digital television comes in you, they may be able to connect it up to the Internet (...) televisions, but eventually you might be able to have the screen that’ll do all this, you know have the telly on and it will be a connection to the Internet, especially through Cable
?: Yeah, that would be better wouldn’t it? 
PL: It wouldn’t be a separate machine
LM: Has anyone heard about the sort of home shopping things you can get on, on telly at the moment on the  
?: QVC
?: QVC
?: Yeah
?: Yeah
?: And have you heard, what have you heard, what have you seen?
?: Watch it quite a bit, yeah
?: Do you know, I don’t know anybody that’s bought anything off there though [laughter]
?: (…) still tiny but yeah it’s alright it has different hours, so you know which hour to watch, of your interest um
?: Right, yeah (.)
?: Get quite hooked on it, I’d be worse on that [laughter]
LM: Yeah, how do you think it would compare, sort of watching, watching it on TV, phoning up?
?: Just tapping it out on there init (2.0)
?: I’d be very poor in the end [laughter] bad enough now when I go shopping
?: Would they have pictures on there, ‘cause, they did have some pictures (.) if they were going to do like clothes shopping would it be like a catalogue with pictures in it?
LM: Depends on what sort of product it is, ‘cause like a holiday one, there’s an Interflora site where they have like quite good pictures, quite big pictures, of like different bouquets you can buy and send (.) um and I saw some clothes on the other day, it was um kind of mall something and they were like you know (...)  
?:   Is it like 3D where you can turn it around in mid-air so you can see every angle?
[laughter]  
LM:   No, it wasn’t that good, it didn’t have different angles, it was just a kind of, you know hum drum picture so you could see like you know how, you know (…) trousers and cardigan and stuff like that  
?:   Yeah if I could put my body in there  
LM:   And what colours you could have, and it’ll give you measurements for sort of one little picture
?: It would be good if you could sort of shape yourself  
LM:   Yeah  
?:   Putting it on that Internet and then fit yourself in it and you think ’well I look alright now, oh no I don’t think that’ll suit me’ take your body out of it  
PL:   There is a, there is a body scanner, that you can go in and it, it takes a scan of your body gets, gets all your proportions and can store that information
?: What on that?
PL: No, not on this one, that’s, this is like a big machine in a wardrobe and it scans you  
?:   Oh
PL: But then it puts the information down onto a disk which you can put on your computer and the idea is that eventually that you’ll be able to go and see clothes and say ’oh look, try that on me’ and it’ll show you  
?:   That sounds good, I like that  
 [laughter] 
?:   What if it’s really tight will it squeeze you a bit? [laughter]
?: (…) [laughter]
PL: No, no (…) in size [laughs] I haven’t heard about that, it’s a good question
?: Be good if you could pick up wigs and stuff and see what wigs would like on you or different hair cuts  
PL:  Yeah, yeah
?: Like you could go in the hairdressers (...) or something
?: Yeah they do the one for the room with the carpet don’t they?
LM: Oh right
?: Yeah, the walls, they take a picture of your room
PL: Yeah
?: Yeah, I wanted to get that done, but I don’t know where to get it done
?: I think that’s (…) to have that done in my um, they asked me what colour the settee was and (.) where was I? And then they said this colour carpet and that colour carpet
LM: Mm
?: Yeah (...) really good
?: Yeah
PL: Well I mean, that’s, that’s, that’s the sort of thing they’ll be able to do, as well, they’ve not really developed those kind of things yet, you’ve can see the sort of thing they’ve got, though, I mean lists of the products that they’ve got, I mean they’ve got different things, eventually they’ll develop those kind of things too
?: (…) colour (…) they can test all their you know walls, beige and brown floor and you know  
PL:   Yeah  
?:  Yellow settee or whatever it was and (.) I haven’t got a yellow settee, but I’m just saying that  
  [laughter]  
?: It sounds awful (1.0)
?: Yeah, I think shopping’s quite boring, I think that’s just something you have to do, so you just do like grocery shopping things like that, but other shopping, especially things that you want to see  
PL:   Right  
?:   That’s  
PL:   Right  
?:   That’s more interesting I think
PL: Right
?: Yeah
PL: So what would it be a shame to do that on the Internet? (.) The more interesting shopping? Or would you do that anyway?
?: No things that you want to see that you that you can’t see when you go shopping
PL: Oh right, right [cough]
?: Like [coughing] the carpet and things like that  
PL:   Yeah right  
?:   Things that you want to try out  
PL:  Right, right  
?:  And make your mind up  
PL:   No, that’s, that’s right
?: Right, like Dulux and all their different colour paints, you know what I mean
PL: Yeah, yeah  I know it’s impossible for, with all the thousands of colours, it’s impossible to put (...) I’ve just painted one of my rooms blue, very adventurous I thought  
?: Yeah, I think you’ll be  
PL:   (...)  
?:   About eighty years old and I’ll say ’ do you remember you said that was impossible?’
[laughter] (4.0)
?: I think it’s good (2.0) 
?: It’ll definitely catch on (2.0)
?: I bet it’s done a lot in America already isn’t it?
PL: Socially there’s more, there’s more in America, but it’s catching on pretty fast here too (5.0)
?: I’m there (.) definitely [laughter]
?: Maybe she’s there because you know, slightly a bit about it, I mean I haven’t got a clue  
LM:   Mmm  
?:   So I’m, I’m thinking, maybe if I done a course in computer work, or, or something like that maybe I’d think, ’yeah I’ll, I’ll have a go at that’, but because I haven’t got a clue about ‘em, I think I’m a bit  
LM:   Yeah  
?:   Ugh you know (2.0)
PL: Wait till your kids get on (…)  
?:   (…) too frightened to press (…)
?: Yeah, but they keep saying to me, ’oh you know’, the kids are the kids are going ’try this game Mum it’s really good, try this one, it’s really simple’ and I’m thinking ’right’ [laughter] and I’m saying what do you do now, damn, oh no, no leave it (…) I throw it back and say ’I can’t do it, I can’t do it’ [laughter] (.)
?: Yeah, I guarantee you if you played the (...) or Tetris, you’d be sick
?: Oh, I’m addicted, I got Gameboy, I’m addicted to the Tetris  
?:  Yeah same here  
?:  I got a hundred and thirty five blocks the other day actually [laughter]
?: Innit funny, but it’s  
?:   I say that on Gameboy  
?:  Yeah [laughter]
?: Yeah, the Columns one’s good aswell (...)
PL: I didn’t know you could play (…) (.)
?: Yeah  [laughter]
?: Now you know
PL: How did you know?
?: Now you know
PL: How do you do that then?
?: (…) tomorrow [laughter]
?: We’ll be all on it  (2.0) 
?: Yeah they’ve got the Tetris on er, what do you call it, (.) that thing that I got, what I gave (...) Playstation
?: They’re thirty three quid now [laughs]
PL: What the program to do it?
?: Thirty, thirty three for the for the disk
PL: Yeah
?: I keep going to buy something and I think I will, but I’d have to hide it from my son so (...) [laughter]
?: Well that’s the (...) got the Gameboy I got, I got it for her for Christmas
?: It was a bit small won’t it?
?: Yeah but I was so, I didn’t think I’d get addicted to something,  soon as I walked in from the school at half past nine, there I am  
 [laughter] 
?:   Like that, but you know what, I I’ve got a funny shoulder now I think, you know every time I go like that  
?:   Yeah  
?:   It’s like a pain innit, and I think it’s ‘cause I’m moving that button all the time on the Gameboy [laughter] I’m sure it’s that  
LM:   It’s probably overdeveloped muscle  
?:   I hid it behind the settee, I hid it behind the settee and, and I know it’s there and I’m thinking, ’just have one more go, just have one more go’, and I know how things can get addicted to it now
PL: Yeah
?: You’d be good on that then [laughter]
?: See I’d probably, if I get that, if I have got one of them then my kids go, I wouldn’t be thinking to ‘oh do your homework on it, or let’s find out this or let’s find out, I’d be come on let’s play this game [laughter] or we’ll play that game’ [laughter]
PL: Well, they could do both
?: Yeah, I’d probably be playing the games [laughs]
?: They’ll be saying ‘no, Mum, we’ve got to do our homework’[laughter]
?: Oh come on let’s just have a quick game [laughter]
?: ‘Get off the games Mum, I need it’
?:  But I bought that Gameboy for her for Christmas, ‘cause she asked for it, she didn’t know what else to, what she wanted and I think I’ve been on it many more times that what she has  
?:   Can’t get into it [laughter]
?: That’s it [laughter] but she won’t get up in the morning, I’ve already like put her breakfast out and I’ve got my cup of tea there, and I’m sitting and the telly goes on (…) she goes, ‘can I have a quick go before I go to school’ I says, ‘no, eat your breakfast’ [laughter] ‘go and get washed’ [laughter] ninety seven, ninety eight, ninety nine (…) like that and I got up to a hundred and thirty seven (…) and I thought yes [laughter] try and beat that Elise [laughter]
?: If she can get on it to beat you
?: I even said to my partner ‘see if you can do it’ he says ‘no, don’t start me up’ [laughter] he makes me laugh, he did, I look at it, even when my little girl picks it up I look at her and I think ‘put that down, put that down, no, unplug that [laughs] (2.0)
PL: Yeah, some people are, are (…) addicted to the Internet (…) stay up all night playing and playing
?: (…) so what, this is just connected to your BT line?
PL: Yeah
?: So it’ll just charge you, BT will, not electric or nothing, don’t you have to plug anything in?
PL: Well, this one’s got a battery in it
LM: It’s only the computer itself
?: Yeah
PL: But no, not for the connection to the Internet, it’s just down the phone line, like any phone call, it’s like having a phone call but (…)
?: Yeah, you get, every time you turn it on you’re getting charged for it or is there something you can do on it that’s, that you’re not getting charged for?
PL: No most of the time you, you, you, you on the computer you’re not getting charged for it, it’s only when you actually want to go on the Internet (…)  
?:   Right so when you’re plugged into a BT line now, whatever it is
PL: We’re off now, it’s like we’ve got the phone down
?: You ain’t being charged?
PL: No
?: Right, so as soon as you start tapping out, that’s when you get charged
PL: That’s when you go on
?: And is it per minute or what or?
PL: It’s, it’s the same as if you were talking  
LM:   Local rate, depending on how much local (…) is  
?:   42p, it’d take 42p a, whatever a minute is it?
PL: No, not that much for a  
?:   How does it go?
PL: For a local call
?: So that’s about  
LM: About 4p (…)
?: God we sound like a BT advert [laughter] (…)
?: When I phone my Mum up, phone my Mum up, when I phone my Mum up in the mornings, I say ‘right Mum you up?’, she goes, ‘yeah, yeah’ like that, when my bill comes it’s cost me 42p, she lives downstairs
LM: How many (…)?
PL: Yes for the first minute it’s the same isn’t it
?: How you  
PL:   Whether you, whether you take that on board
?: (…) nought forty two
LM: Yeah I mean (…)
PL: Oh yeah well er right
?: Yeah, yeah, but if it, ‘cause it’s got nought point nought forty two
?: Yeah
?: ‘Cause I got confused with that  
?:   So what’s that costing me then, I thought it was costing me 42 pence
?: About four, five, six pence
PL: (…)
?: Oh is that all, I thought it was (…) shows you how thick I am, I thought it was 42p
?: (…) 
?: Yeah, but how come my bill’s so high then? [laughter] I mean I was (…) looking at it being 42p and I could think right yeah that’s eighty odd pound that phone bill, yeah that’s about right, but I didn’t know it was four pence, if I had to do (…)  
?: Is this for the keyboard?
PL: Uh no, this, this one’s to the, the telephone line, er, er, they’re thinking of developing a  
?: So you can do it from a (…) telephone line then?
PL: Oh yeah, oh yeah
?: And it’d be cheaper then, it’d be cheaper
PL: That’s true (.) yeah, you can use any (…) search you like
LM: There was a while when um there were Cable that didn’t charge you for local calls
?: Mm
LM: ‘Cause people were on the Internet then you know were pretty lucky, but most people
can’t be doing that
?: Still really cheap compared to BT isn’t it?
PL: Mm
?: Yeah my friends, a lot of them have got Cable and their bills, I work their bills out every three months like paying BT and it roughly works out the same as mine
PL: Mm
?: (…) Cable’s only four pounds odd a month, about twelve pounds for four months
?: No Cable’s six pounds fifty a month 
?: (…) four pounds
?: Is it?
?: Yeah, I’m going to phone them up now [laughter] (2.0)
PL: That’s (…)  
?:   (…) terrible isn’t it, that’s six pounds before you use it
?: (…) four pounds something (2.0)
PL: No, I think it has gone up (…)
?: (…) yeah
PL: But if you want to be able to have like call waiting and stuff (…)  
?: Yeah, yeah, I’ve got that, I didn’t think you could have all the things  
?: (…) call waiting and all that?
LM: (…) and answer machine, yeah (…) caller
PL: (…)
?: Oh I didn’t know that because I don’t, BT, quite a few weeks ago got in touch with me and said ‘do you know like if you’re on the phone, is that call waiting, it’s called call waiting isn’t it, when you’re on the phone and someone rings you and it beeps
PL: Yeah
?: I didn’t know Cable done that aswell
PL: Yeah (4.0) okay, what have you got, anything else?
LM: (…) [laughter]
PL: Okay, well thanks very much (…) chatting (…) (1.0)
?: Go on
?: Yeah how much is the line rental for a thing?
PL: What, for
?: For the Internet (…)
PL: Ah well, the, it depends the, ‘cause the, I think there are companies that are set up to sort of, they’re called Internet providers and they, they, they’re the ones you phone up and then they connect you to the world wide, you know to the Internet
?: Yes
PL: So you can join up different ones, and they have different rates, some of them are, some of them charge you a flat rate and you can use it as much as you like, you just pay this amount a month, say twenty pounds a month or something, others charge you a lower rate but then charge you if you’re on line for longer
?: Oh
?: Oh so it’s like mobile phones really ain’t it?
PL: Right, yeah I suppose so I don’t know, I haven’t done it
?: (…) [laughs]
PL: Yeah, it is, so you can never quite be sure, it’s difficult to say which one’s the cheapest because like, it depends how you use it and how often and what kind (…)
?: My brother he’s got a mobile phone, and he’s sure it gives him headaches when he uses it now, he keeps saying to me ‘I’m sure this mobile phone’s giving me headaches’
?: (…) or whatever
?: Yeah [coughing] (…) use it a bit more then [laughs][coughing]
?: (…) like a security form [laughter]
?: Well I’m not married to him so I wouldn’t call him my husband would I?
?: Your bloke [laughter]
?: Alright then (…)
?: I hate that partner (…)
?: I’m being, I’m being posh, I usually say my other half
PL: It is, it is difficult to know what to say
?: Yeah, that’s better
PL: It’s hard, and then that’s  
?: I usually call him another name, but (…) for that [laughter] (2.0)
PL: But it is, we don’t have a term for it really, do we, that’s the problem
?: Yeah [coughing]
PL: (…) married (…) (2.0)
?: We’ve been living long enough, it’s just that we feel we ought to get married (.) and maybe I should call him my husband oh he’d love that
PL: Yeah [laughter] alright


Group 11, North of England, 08.05.98
C2DE Mixed


Participants			J 
A (older, blonde, quiet)
S (older, glasses, quiet)
? (quiet)
K (young, tried CD Now)
N (weird)

Comments			None used computers as part of work, 1? Had computer at home

None had used Internet before, but K knew workmates who had used it

Fairly talkative group, especially J and N, but A, S and K all made significant contributions

Not generally positive about e-commerce, although J (and ??) thought it would be good for grocery shopping and for minimising time spent on ‘mundane’ shopping. 

Group ‘bonded’ quite well, but increasing tension, especially between N and moderator!



LM: But yeah, by way of introduction, I wonder if we can each go round and tell me your name, then I’ll try and remember it, um and tell me a little bit about what you know about computers, and you know, what use you’ve had of computers, if any, um, (2.0) if you, what you’ve heard about the Internet, that sort of thing. Do you want to start?
J: I’m J
LM: Yep
J: Erm, (2.0)  I don’t really know anything about computers. I mean we had them when we were at school and everything, but it weren’t compulsory
LM: Yeah
J: And it was just, tended to be boring. And Internet sounds interesting, but I’ve never been on it. But it sounds good, from what people have told me you can do lots of things on it
LM: Yeah
J: Erm (…) that’s it [laughs]
LM: That’s good [laughs]
A: Er I’m A. I don’t know nothing about computers, I’ve heard about the Internet but I’m just not clued up with it all
LM: Okay
S: Er, S. I, I know absolutely nowt about them. Er (2.0) I’ve never been involved in them at all like, they just, they’ve got a few at work now, some machines, but apart from that I don’t know absolutely nowt about them
LM: Alright then
?: I’m the same as him. [coughing] I work for, there’s a, they’re going to start putting, what I work for, George, they’re going to put us on computers but I know nothing about them
LM: Right
?: But they’re going to teach us
LM: Right
?: So you might be able to teach me something
LM: Head start [laughs]
?: But Internet, the only thing I know about that is on Neighbours
LM: Yeah?
?: That’s it. (1.0) That’s all I know about it.
K: I’m er K. (1.0) Er, same again. Not er, not come across it. Got Internet at work, just had it installed, er, last week, er but well I don’t get a chance to go on them like, but er just that lads are finding it hard to, to get round it but  
LM:   Right, okay
N: I’m N, erm, been on the Internet I’ve, (1.0) I’ve tried to go into the Darryl Hannah page but I couldn’t spell Darryl, Darryl
LM: [laughs]
N: So I had to come off. And that’s about as far as I’ve been really
LM: Right. [coughing] I think you’ve all heard about the Internet, but I mean none of you apart from you there have like, sort of been on the Internet, but what sort of thing have you heard, like, on TV or have you read in the papers, or whatever
J: That you can buy beanie babies, and they want these right expensive (...) and they advertise for them and I want to go on and see how much they want to pay for them [laughs]. Someone said that it’s right good and you can do things like look at streets in America or something like that, I don’t know if that’s true (2.0)
LM: Bet you can somewhere, I don’t know [laughs]
PL: Yeah, you can do that yeah
J: Yeah, that sounded good. (2.0) Don’t know
LM: What has anyone else heard?
K: Dunno
A: I’ve heard of it, but I don’t  
S:   Oh yes
A: I just don’t know what it is
S: Well, I don’t
K: It’s a program come up on that actually, I watched it the other night on (3.0) er, Channel Four I think it were, that were called Internet something, but it was sort of similar to what she’s just been on about, look, he were on about All Saints and all that like, so
J: Oh yeah, Net killer  
N:   Killer, Killer Net
J: Killer, Killer Net, that’s good
K: Killer Net or something, aye, it’s just come on and that’s all about Internet  
J:   It’s good that
K: But apart for that I don’t know nowt like  
LM:   Right
K: No idea (1.0)
S: It’s the same, the same what I’ve seen on telly, just the advertisements that er, that Windows and what have you
LM: Yeah
S: (...) a little bit, but (1.0) that’s it really
?: I (…) goes to work  
A:   (...) a woman who’s at work is on the Internet and she says she’s got a sister in America and she’s speaks to her often. (1.0) That’s as much, I thought it were a phone actually
J: Well my cousin’s on Internet, but right  
A:   [laughs] That’s as much as I know
J: His mum lives away but he writes to her on it because it’s right cheap (3.0) but er 
A: She says she uses it after six o clock
S: Goes through your phone line, doesn’t it?
A: Oh I don’t know
?: (…)
?: Yeah
A: Haven’t got a clue (3.0)
LM: Yeah, it’s connected up on the phone so we’ve got it plugged in and we can have a go in a minute
J: Oh good
LM: [laughs] So I’m going to need a volunteer then [laughs]
?: Hmm
LM: Basically, we’ve got this little computer here, so we’ll try and have a look at some Internet sites, um, sort of different bits of the Internet, from the machine here, and what we’re specially interested in is shopping over the Internet, that you can actually use the computer to like, order your groceries, or order  
J:   What about clothes shopping?
LM: Yeah, in some cases you can do clothes shopping over the Internet, like kind of there’s a catalogue on-line, or whatever
J: Mm
LM: Um so yeah, I’ll switch it on and you can have a look, and let me know what you think of it (5.0) don’t know if you’ll all be able to see it all right (3.0)
J: So is that it then?
LM: The computer? [laughs] This is it. Yep [laughs]
J: Well how come, I didn’t even know that they made flip-top computers with Internet on them, how do you get Internet on them then? (1.0)
LM: Well it’s got like a connection [Computer: ‘welcome to CompuServe’] that the phone’s got, I mean it’s the same as if it was on a normal sort of (.) desk top computer, it’s got the same sort of power
?: Well how would you talk to her sister then?
J: Type
A: You type it
?: You type it?
A: That’s what she would have done (...) [laughter]
LM: Oh that’s what, is that what it was on Neighbours, what that was about, oh (10.0)
LM: Ooh (2.0) How do you connect it up, Pete? [laughs] Didn’t work then
K: Confusing the experts
PL: What’s it doing? Hmm. (1.0) Have you, what did you try, this here
LM: Disconnect (.) What’s that?
PL: No, the little globe (14.0)
LM: Okay (5.0)
K: How much would one of these knock you back? (2.0)
LM: A couple of thousand pounds
?: (...)
A: Well that’s it then [laughter] (…)
LM: Yes, you can’t really
?: (...) [laughs]
PL: We’ll try and close it and start again, shall we?
LM: Yeah alright [Computer: ‘leaving CompuServe’] have a look at Tesco’s
PL: Yeah (7.0) [Computer: ‘welcome to CompuServe’] (26.0) these are some of the problems you can have with it
LM: [laughs] Not working at the moment
J: What, can’t you get on the Internet?
PL: That’s right, we can’t, we can’t get it to connect up to the 
J: And why don’t it connect up? (2.0)
PL: This is a fault in the program itself
LM: It’s kind of like dialling, ‘cos it’s going through the phone line, it’s kind of like dialling a number and it being engaged, but we don’t know why if you see what I mean
S: How much cheaper is it [Computer: ‘leaving CompuServe’] than the phone?
LM: Well it’s like local rate, so that’s the thing about people using it after six o’ clock, like, to sort of talk to people on the other side of the world, because it’s like paying for a local phone call, [Computer: ‘welcome to CompuServe’] um but I mean obviously if you use it during the day then it’s however much a local rate call would cost during the day, which is quite expensive (4.0)
PL: No
LM: No, not working? Let’s have a look at the, shall we look at the Tesco site?
PL: Mmhmm
LM: Give them a try, UCL
PL: Did you, where was the connect that you used? (.) Oh right, that one, yeah. No, (1.0) that’s an error that CompuServe has, that you can’t fix on mine (...). [Computer: ‘leaving CompuServe’] We could try the UCL, briefly (7.0) Aaah, (...)
LM: Oh right (2.0) [laughs]
PL: Here we are (2.0) Got it (7.0) [computer: ‘welcome to CompuServe’] (10.0)
LM: Is it going to work now? [laughs] (7.0)
PL:  So it’s just connecting up now, it’s like it’s phoning up
A: Oh right
PL: CompuServe is one of the companies that er have an Internet service (2.0) we’re just ringing them up
S: It works pretty much the same as the telephone, then, you have to wait for the line to become available, like
PL: That’s it
LM: Yeah
PL: And now that’s, that’s happened so now we
J: Well, I know that when you’re using the, the Internet you can’t er (2.0) do it properly if your line’s engaged 
PL: Yeah, that’s right
J: When you use your phone line
PL: This line’s now engaged. It’s just as if someone had picked up the phone and was making a phone call
J: Ah
PL: It’s a local, the charge is a local (.) call. So even though we’re  
J:   So does it matter what, if whatever you’re wanting to do on Internet it just char, costs the same? 
PL: Yep. You can go and look at even America or (.) well whatever it’s still the same cost
J: So why are you looking at them, is the phone still engaged?
PL: Yep (4.0) people who use it a lot get a second line put in (1.0)
N: Yeah
J: Oh right
N:  Saw, saw that on Neighbours as well. (2.0) [laughs] Not that I watch it, no
A: Not guilty, I saw that one
PL: What was it (...) they had the Internet on Neighbours then?
A: Pardon?
PL: They had the Internet on Neighbours did they?
A: Yeah, it’s this little girl, she keeps going on it and her Dad’s in some type of business or something
PL: Right
A: And (...) because he can’t get his business card through
LM: [laughs]
PL: He should just get another one [laughter]
A: (...) tonight [laughter] episode [laughter]
LM: Alright, so who wants to have a go? (2.0) [laughs] Go on [laughs]
J:  Well er
LM: Right, this one I’m (.) just trying to sort out, oh what’s happened to ( 4.0)
PL: Have you changed the sonic?
LM: Yeah Berkeley Square
PL: Oh yes, I see
LM: This is like um, sort of a virtual shopping mall, it’s one of the sort of most popular ones, ways of like shopping on computer. It’s called Berkeley Square and you should be able to choose from a number of shops, they’ve got like a Interflora, and they’ve got like a bank  
K:   And you just get your stuff delivered?
LM: Yeah. But it’s kind of like, you know, your computer program you’re in like your shopping mall, and you can pay online. I wonder what’s in here. Do you want to try and  
S:   Has it been set up from America?
J: Right, so what do I do?
LM: It’s this little ball  
J:   And get on to that
LM: Moves around the screen and then you use this button here
J: That one?
LM: Yeah (2.0)
J: That right? (...) So what’s this then? Home, the shops (1.0) I’ll just do the (...) help search (4.0)
LM: So it’s come up with something about security, but
J: Mm 
LM: We could press on that arrow again to go to the next, sort of bit
J: So, so if you were doing this what would you do, pay by credit card?
LM: Yep, usually (2.0) 
J: Oh it’s going to tell us what to do now (5.0)
K: [coughs] Have you got every, every shopping place in the world on that then, or?
LM: No, some, some shops are on and some aren’t, there’s like Tesco’s are on at the moment, some of the supermarkets are sort of getting on to the Internet. Um, there’s lots of big names on. But also lots of little shops as well that you’ve never heard of, and the others in there, like in America, do like a specialist product, or something
S: Have you’ve got (...) from America then, on, on this?
LM: Yeah, you could do, yeah, they’d sort of convert it into pounds, give them your credit card number
A: (...) [laughter]
N: Set up your own business, couldn’t you?
A: (…) jacket [laughter]
N: Importing Levis (6.0)
LM: Ooh it’s got a catalogue (10.0) [laughs] yes, if you move it to  
J:   Right so everywhere, I have to be on underneath a line, (.) on something that’s underlined before I can click  
LM:   Yes, it’s like a handle, yeah
J: So er where are we going then?
LM: I think you should decide. Right, we’ve got Argos there
J: Oh I see
LM: There should be all sorts in here
K: (...) (2.0) 
LM: There you can see it, yeah, if we scroll down, move down the page a bit there should be a choice of places to go 
J: Oh right, yeah
LM: Argos
J: Yeah
LM: Country Crafts (1.0) whatever they are, Interflora (2.0) (...) ToysR’Us, (1.0) Victoria Wine (3.0) (...)
A: It’s unbelievable how many’s on it though isn’t it?
?: Mm
LM: This is just like one sort of shopping mall that has like lots of things  
J:   So um
LM: In one place (2.0)
J: Are they all real aren’t they, we really can have a look, what do, how do I get up that one?
LM: Yeah, move to the sort one of the blue things, there’s a bookshop there or  
J:   Where does anybody, what does anybody want to buy? (3.0) God there’s loads isn’t there
A: Amazing, isn’t it?
J: See, that’s just Thomas Cook
K: So could you type something in? Like if you wanted a shop, is there any way you can type something in and see if it’s, if you can get to that shop?
J: Why, what do you want to buy though?
K: No I mean just, well say if you wanted a specialist shop you could put it as a  
LM:   Yeah
K: Like type it in it its search and see if that  
LM:   Yeah, you could do that  
A:   Oh, like memory
J: How do I go back down the page now then?
LM: Go back, you can use these things
J: Oh it’s there, yeah
LM: Yeah like sort of press on the (…)
J: So, where shall we go, tropical places? [laughter]
A: Thomas Cook’s
J: Thomas Cook’s? Is that where you want to go? Er, hang on a minute (4.0)
LM: Yeah, I don’t know if this particular one does searches, but like you can, (1.0) usually like with the
K:  I was at work when the people said the, the like (...) website (...) like, so if you set your own website up, how, how does that work then? Does that come, will that come back to your computer or does it  
?:   I don’t know
K: Know what I mean or is it I don’t know what it means like (…)
J: What do you mean, like when it  
K:   You know, you know like, say people have their own website
J: Yeah
K: Well, people get in touch with them. Does that, does that come straight back to their computer, or is that like, actually  
J:   Well, none of it, sorry
K: Do you have to call, call that up, type of thing?
LM: How does that work, Pete, if you have your own website, is that like the basis, is that like the home page on your computer, or?
PL: Yes
J: I don’t understand about websites, me
PL: Oh, you, this is a website that you’re on
J: So this is Thomas Cook’s website
PL: This is Thomas Cook’s website
J: Right
PL: And that’s held on their computer
?: Yeah
PL: And we’re now connected to this telephone line (…)  
J:   To Thomas Cook’s website
PL: Yeah. So if you had one (.) on your computer, you’d have to have your computer switched on, or you could, what you can do is, you can store it at the local main frame computer  
K:   Right
PL: That’s running all the time
K: Yeah
PL: And so then people can come in and look at it
K: Right
PL: Even when your own computer’s not running
K: Right
J: Ahh 
PL: So there’s  
J:   Right, you know now none of the words are underlined so (.) what do I do?
LM: Well if you move this button around again you should sort of see that  
J:   When it turns into a hand I can click?  
LM: When it turns into a hand it usually means you can click on it
J: So by destination, by, mm sounds nice. Anywhere, anybody? (.) Top thirty?
K: We’ve not looked at flights
A: Mm
J: Look at what?
K: Flights
A: Flights, (…)
J: Destination by (…) oh yeah (13.0)
?: (…) (5.0)
A: Where to, when, where and from
J: Do you know what I‘d like, I want to know how much it is to go from S Airport to Amsterdam (2.0) [laughter]
LM: Alright [laughs] there you can, might have S but like, if you, here, if you like, press on  
J:   Anywhere there
LM: It should give you like a list of things, like places  
J:   Right
LM: To go to. Can’t see Amsterdam
J: Oh it’s alphabetical order, oh yeah  
LM:   There we go, Amsterdam
J: Yeah
LM: When?
J: Any time (2.0) No, when it’s warm, actually, it’s got to be warm, when it’s, it’s not hot in Amsterdam. August (2.0)
LM: Where from? Now. Doesn’t have S which is (…)
A: No, ‘cos it’s only just come up, hasn’t it?
J: Mm (2.0)
PL: What’s the nearest airport on that?
J: Manchester
?: Manchester
K:  (…) or Birmingham
A: What’s that say at bottom anyway?
J: Yeah, what’s that, anyway
A: Try that anyway, you never know, it might be  
S:   That anyway, it’ll just bring it cheaper so they  
A:   Yes, probably would do, yeah
LM: Or just give you more, a bigger selection. (1.0) So what do you want? Er, Manchester, or?
J: Manchester
LM: Okay. And then, if you like, move the button on to where it says take off
J: Take off
LM: I think that’ll do a calculation for you which will give you some (.) choices
J: Ah that’s good isn’t it. Has that worked? (2.0)
LM: Okay (3.0)
J: What, what’s BA?
LM: That should be the British Airways, yeah, that’s the airline
J: Ah, oh (2.0) that’s quite cheap, ninety-seven pound
?: Is that it then, just them two?
LM: Yeah, looks like it, try moving it down
?: Oh yeah (2.0)
LM: Yeah, no. That’s it. 
J: Anybody else?
?: (…) [laughter]
J: Oh God. (…) where else shall we go? Cuba [laughter]
N: Tenerife
J: Right, hang on a minute, let me just erm, so, how do I get back now?
LM: To (1.0) where you were before. Try pressing the thing there
J: Oh right
LM: Should take you back to the (2.0)
S:  Well that, down there, that cross in the corner of the screen, that side, that takes you back, don’t it
LM: Well  
J:   That?
LM: That’ll just, that’ll probably just shut that page down. Like you’ll close the Thomas Cook bit and take you back to the main bit
S: Don’t that, don’t that go back then, that cross? Don’t it take you back to the main menu like?
LM: No, if you, yeah, there’s home, that’ll take you to like the, the where we started from, that’ll always just take you to the main (1.0) picture that comes up every time you switch on
J: Oh right. Okay, let me have, let me on uh, (3.0) Tenerife, who wants to go to Tenerife? [laughs] I’ve been to Tenerife
N: Yeah right
J: Believe it or not
S: (…)
J: It is, it’s  
S: I’m just seeing how much cheaper I could have got it, that’s all
J: It’s warm all year round (2.0) erm pqrst well   
LM:   Oh it’s not there
J: Not there
?: (…)
A: It is quite expensive to go (…)
N: (…) money-wise
J: Tenerife?
A: Mm
J: It were actually  
A:   It is cheap, it has gone down cheaper now, but years ago  
J:   So, how come it’s not on?
LM: Don’t know, really, I don’t know whether you can type it in
S: Why don’t you look under Spain?
K: (…) it’ll be under Portugal
?: Spain? It’s not under Spain?
K: Canary Isles
?: (…)
?: Canaries
PL: No
N: Get on to the other places, round Greece, I been
?: Yeah
A: Which part you go to?
J: No
N: Oh I forget it, right dodgy name. Er (2.0)
A: Los Americas, Los (…)
PL: They must er, not sell any flights there
N: Los something [laughs]
PL: Or not have any for sale at the moment
J: No
N: Playa, Playa something
A: Playa (…)
N: Yeah, yeah, yeah ,yeah
LM: Shall we try a different website, have a look at something different?
J: Alright. So, do I go to the cross now then? Does that (1.0) take me 
LM: Erm (1.0)
J: So if we want to look at something else
LM: If we go, just go home, that’ll take us to the start again
J: Right (2.0) This, right  
LM: Oh yeah I know this (…) yeah, it’s (…) (3.0)
A: Well are they all like that with the little ball then?
J: No, you have a mouse, don’t you
LM: Yeah, lots of computers have like a  
J:   That’s like what’s underneath your mouse though, isn’t it (3.0)
LM: Okay, maybe we should try some of this (2.0) Oh no that’s (…) (3.0)
J: Let’s go (1.0) to (4.0) where shall we go?
?: We don’t want Argos, it’s cheap (2.0)
K: Try Netto then
?: It’s even cheaper [laughter]
A: It’s not in that [laughs]
J: Toys-R-Us, no, that’s boring, anybody? (2.0)
LM: We got some other ones (…) other things  
K:   (…) go to H, HSF
N: [laughs] (…)
LM: Look at the Tesco’s site, or er  (2.0)
J: What’s that?  I don’t know what they are
LM: That’s a CD shop in the States
?: Oh is it? Let’s have a look
?: (…)
?: Does it play any music to us?
LM: Well, it does, it’s supposed to, it doesn’t always work  
J:   Really?
LM: But we could give it a try. [laughs] But we’ve been trying it before and it’s (1.0)  a bit rusty
J: Oh right (2.0)
LM: And this is one way you can (1.0) search for what you want, sort of
K: Mm
J: Go on then
LM: Do you want to have a go?
K: (…)
LM: So like, you can  
K:   Right, let me on. Artist
LM: Yeah. So if you want to, you could either, yeah or you can (1.0) you can search by (1.0) title of the album
J: Eh, it’s good this, isn’t it? (2.0)
K: (…)
LM: And if you  
K:   Clear it off
LM: Move that, yeah that’s alright, move it to there  
K:   Type it in there
LM: And then click in there, yeah, and then type in what you want (3.0)
J: You what?
A: Happy Mondays
LM: [laughs]
A: He’s pretty fast on keys isn’t he? [laughter]
K: I just have a spectrum [laughter]
A: Have you been practising all day [laughter]
N: You’re telling us a few porkies, aren’t you (…) 
K: (…) continue
?: Yeah [coughs] (.)
J: To see what you are sending. Do you want to continue? (2.0)
LM: It often comes up with that when you’re sending (.) information (.) from sort of one place to the next. Oh there we go, look
J: So what does it matter if people can see what you’re sending?
LM: Well, some people think that if you’re sending like your credit card information  
J:   Oh yeah
LM: That might not be safe  
A:   Oh right
LM: But, I mean, if you’re sending that you want to find out about the Happy Mondays  
J:   So, so like if you were shopping, it’d just be like you’d pay by credit card, how do you get your things?
LM: Well, they’ll sort of take your order, take the money out of your account  
S:   Like QVC I suppose
LM: Send it to you. It’s like mail order, or, yeah, yeah
S: QVC channel, that’s right
A: So then they charge
LM: Yeah
J: For delivery
A: How much?
J: Yeah. That’s not free of charge, is it
?: Yeah but, you’ll have it delivered here in a minute. You’re not watching it. [laughs] Come on
K: What’s it say for like  
J:   If you like Happy Mondays click here. For some great, go on click, for some songs [laughs]
(5.0)
LM: I wonder what it’ll come up with
K: Have you got Vera’s credit card? [laughter] (4.0)
J: Oh this is right good, you could sit and listen to all the CD’s and then go and buy them, couldn’t you, or send for them from America, I want one
A: What would it sound like on this though, are you, are you going to get them to play  
LM:   I’ll try it 
J:   Well I don’t know  
K: It’s really good ‘cos a friend of mine’s got Internet so, I, I don’t (…)
LM: Yeah
A: Let’s get a bit of music on then
J: I know, let’s, go on
K: (…) it’s all different  
LM: Right
K: He’s got the Internet now, and it’s got speakers, and , yeah, it sounds alright
S: Be good to see what else (…)
J: Let’s find out where’s  
LM:   What’s (…) doing at the moment? Just not sure where  
K:   Well it’s going to play the original (1.0) debut or something
A: Is it? (10.0)
J: What’s happened now then?
LM: It’s just, sort of logged in whatever it was you just chose (2.0) I’m just wondering if it’ll play you like, ‘cos excerpts from the first Happy Mondays album (…)
J: And can you get to see pictures? I’ve seen them CD (…)  
LM: Yeah, it should show  
J: Players what you can buy, and erm
PL: The Interflora one’s a good one
LM: Yeah, that’s true
J: Oh no, they’re for um, hang on a minute. You can play some CD’s on your computer and get a picture up can’t you? (2.0)
LM: Don’t know, actually. If you can get  
PL:   Yes, they’re called laser discs
LM: Oh right
J: Are they normal disk, CD’s?
PL: No, no, they’re, they’re CD’s that have got music and information about pictures as well. You couldn’t play it on this computer though, you’d have to have a special computer that can interpret the music and the um  
LM: Oh right, this is the um, this is all the stuff that was trying to say if you like  
K:   Alright
LM: Happy Mondays (…) whatever
PL: You can play a CD but not the ones with imaging on
J: And do you have to have a, I know this has got nothing to do with it, but do you have to have a special CD for it to watch them on TV as well?
K: (…)
LM: Yeah, that way it should  
J:    You do, don’t you
PL: Yes
J: You can do that now, can’t you?
PL: You can, although that’s going to come in later with digital television
J: Yeah
LM: Radiohead (…)
J: Listening stations. Does that mean you can listen to any of these songs what are coming up on here?
LM: I think so.(3.0) Okay
A: Play it
LM: Right, here we go
J: Oh yeah
LM: [laughs] Ooh, it’s gone
J: Why’s it gone?
LM: Don’t know. But it’s still (…) it all [laughter]
A: Oh, I think it’s easier to put a cassette in, me [laughter] (3.0)
J: Yeah, but if you hadn’t got them (1.0)
A: Mm
J: You could tape them off here couldn’t you (…) put in your car
LM: [laughs] (2.0) I think it’ll still be loading
PL: It’ll only give you a sample
A: I were going to say, it’s not going to play the whole lot
J: Hmm, that’s an idea
PL: And it’s mono, usually
J: And it’s what?
PL: Mono
J: Hmm (.)
LM: Right, Okay
J: Elephant’s Dawn 
K: Number one
J: I don’t know any of these songs
LM: See if we can play it now
J: I Want To Be Adored (3.0)
K: [laughs]
LM: It’s all a bit slow. Still happens (2.0) oh
J:  Ah, that’s good
K: [laughs]
LM: It’s downloading it now, look
J: It’s cool [laughter]
PL: You’re not getting the whole album on you know [laughs]. Oh here we go. This is the music player (1.0)
J: Oh yeah, look
LM: It’s still, it’s still trying to get in touch with (2.0) I’ll be amazed if this works [laughs] (3.0)
J: Yeah, that’s another thing what puts me off. It’s just frustrating, isn’t it, when you’re, like you, get somewhere and you think, God, how did I do that then
[Music]
PL: There you go
J: Wow
K: Is there a volume on it?
J: Yeah
[Volume goes up]
A: Ah, I think that’s right good, me
J: (…) when it stops
LM: Yeah
A: I mean, it’s like a, (…) you want a special CD and you don’t know what it sounds like, and it’s, I think that’s right good
?: Well you wouldn’t want to buy that would you? (…)
[Music stops. Laughter]
?: (…)
?: Stop that, it’s gone now
?: Is it getting any better?
?: Don’t let him have another choice
LM: So yeah. So that’s one of the things you can do, and it’ll, it’s given you, like, from that album, it’s given, one two three four five tracks that you could  
A:   Mm
J: Listen to
LM: So it’s about half of the album it’s given you to clips to listen to
J: Yeah
LM: And so, what you did there was  
J:   I think that’s brilliant
LM: Say like the Happy Mondays, it gives you a list of other stuff, say, I don’t know how many it’s given you, a few, (…) other things you might like, and you can play bits, and see if you like them  
J:   So when, you know when, that, that warning came up about other people, how do you keep it so that people don’t know your credit card numbers and things? (1.0) What do you do?
LM: Well this is, I mean this is all sort of being debated at the moment, ‘cos  
J:   Oh right
LM: I mean, a lot of the people who are, who’ve got these  
J: Well I don’t think I’d shop on here if I knew somebody else had my card number
[More music, laughter]
?: Oh it’s (…) corner shop [more music]
J: So anyway why can’t you pay on delivery? (1.0) Of your goods? (1.0) Like, mail order catalogues, you don’t pay before you get your things, do you?
A: Mm, that’s true (2.0)
J: I don’t know  
LM: If you’re buying something, if you’re ordering something from the States, from like that American CD company, um
?: Well you’d want to know  
A: It were, it were all right when it come, and that
J: Yeah, because really, anybody can put one of them advertisements on there, can’t they? (2.0) I mean, Ku Klux Klan advertise on here, don’t they? [laughter]
LM: I don’t know probably [laughs]
J: I don’t think they do [laughter]
?: I wouldn’t think you could get them in
S: Will that take me back to that, to main one won’t it, will it?
PL: (…)
LM: No
S: No (…)
LM: Don’t know where it’s gone (3.0)
PL: What’s going on? 
K: Where do I?
S: Is there no confidential  
J:   Main menu, go on
S: Other people tap in to what you were thinging on it? (2.0)
PL: Nobody’s quite sure about that
J: Password 
LM: I don’t know what’s going on
S: So you don’t know whether things are confidential or not? 
PL: No  
J:    You should have said okay
A: (…) they can put books on computers, can’t they; can they do with that, can they do it with Internet then?
J: Oh right
[Computer: Leaving CompuServe]
LM: Ooh, that’s very loud
J: Oh 
LM: Okay, so, what do you think?
K: Is that, is that pretty busy then, the shopping thing (1.0) on the Internet, do people use it  
J:   I’m fascinated by this, me
LM: Yeah, nobody, nobody’s entirely sure, really, I mean it’s quite hard to  
N:   I tell you what, I wouldn’t give my credit card details out, you know, over a computer line that, the world can get
S: That’s what I say, is it, it don’t seem very confidential, does it, like, other people could tap into it
N: It can’t be, can it?
K: Yeah but tell you what, if somebody’s (…) with computers they can get your credit card details anyway, can’t they. Just takes a Barclaycard or whatever
LM: Yeah
N: I mean it’s like say, you want to get burgled, I mean, you know, it’s leaving the back door open, if they’re going to burgle me, they’ll burgle me
K: It’s like if you get something on the phone on your visa card, you don’t know 
N: Well no
K: If it’s going to come or not
LM: That’s what, I mean some people say that it’s really easy to (1.0) hack in to get other people’s information over the Internet, but other people say, like you say, that if you give your number out over the phone that you don’t know
K: Yeah
LM: You know, then, you give your card to a waiter in a restaurant, and they go away for ten minutes then
S: Yes, it’s the same I suppose, isn’t it?
LM: But I mean, that’s, you know, would you feel confident?
K: Well a, a program on telly, right, [coughing] er, these guys all worked in, er, petrol stations. They wanted (1.0) cash up for the day, they were selling big rolls of credit card numbers to their mates
LM: Right
K: They were just ringing up, from wherever they lived, just buying all new things, and the things was just coming to their houses, and they’d just take off with them on other people’s cards, just, just by having their numbers
A: Oh
J: Credit card fraud’s too easy anyway, isn’t it, really. There you are, it being advertised on there
(2.0)
S: It’s impressive though, that, I’m impressed with it
?: It’s brilliant (…) I want one [laughter]
?: It is yeah
?: Good
S: I didn’t know it could do all that on it
?: How much are they?
A: I don’t know
S: Few thousand pounds, isn’t it
?: How much? (…)
LM: Well, I mean, that’s quite expensive ‘cos it’s a little one
S: Oh right (…) [laughter] I’m impressed with it, it’s good
LM: Yeah, it is. But once you got  
N:   How much is it to have it put on to your computer?
?: Is it more for a business type of person? That’s in to all these 
N: That one is. I mean but you can get them for home computers. No, how much is it to put it, to add it on to  
LM:   Yeah, how much did you pay  
N: A friend of mine built his own computer up, and he’s added the Internet, you know, on to it  
J: Yeah, yeah, my  
N: How much is it to add that?
J: My niece’s stepdad’s doing that
N: How much is it to add it on?
LM: It, it’s not, I think it’s like, about fifteen pound a month or something like that?
PL: It varies, ‘cos the, that’s CompuServe we were just looking at but there are different  
N:   Oh right yeah. 
?: This is bound to be more expensive  
PL:   That one’s quite expensive, yeah
N: You can carry it home with you, can’t you. But for your home computer
PL: Yeah, well, but you could, you can choose different companies to connect you to the Internet
J: So how many, like, Internet companies is there? Loads?
PL: I don’t know but there are quite, there are quite a few now. And they charge different rates, and some of them will, you pay a certain amount for unlimited use. Others charge you a smaller amount to begin with but charge you for every hour or every minute that you use it or whatever. So it depends how you use it which one you choose  
K:   Mm
PL: To have
LM: It doesn’t matter what sort of computer you’ve got, really
K: It depends on what
LM: It depends on what sort of company you go through. A lot of them give you like three months sort of free, where you just pay for the phone calls, and then they’ll charge you like a monthly fee, to keep you connected and then you pay for the phone calls on top of that. So then we were probably on the Internet for what, twenty minutes there, so
N: Is that one of the most expensive desktops in the world?
LM: That’s probably quite, yeah, one of the most expensive
N: Yeah
LM: (…) ‘cos it’s so portable
N: So how much could you  
A:   So them like home computers, they don’t have that screen then? You don’t 
N: Desktops do, don’t they
LM: They’ll come with a sort of monitor, screen
A: Oh
LM: And it’ll be bigger, probably, but it’s just
N: What’s one of the cheapest you could pick up? Desktops? 
LM: Don’t know
N: If that’s one of the most expensive at a few grand, I mean
K: Is that, is that plugged straight into the phone line, or is there a modem on that, is that built in?
LM: That is, the modem’s in
K: Built in is it?
LM: In there
J: What is a modem?
K: We’re supposed to be getting laptops, next year
LM: That’s the modem
K: That is?
LM: Yeah
?: It’s like a card you put in
A: What’s that card then?
J: What does it do?
PL: It connects the computer to the telephone line. It’s like a sort of exchange, really, little exchange  
J:   And what’s all this, right, my niece has got a computer, she’s had all these things put on it, what’s CD ROM and all, megabytes and all that?
PL: This has got a CD ROM on it. It’s just a CD (...) drive in your computer. There it is. You drop a CD in there, and it’ll play it, or it can have a program on it, and it’ll run it off then
LM: So you can like put a music CD in and it’ll just start playing it. Or you can have it like, it’s got sort of information or a program on it, or games, or something like that, and it’ll come up, um, as pictures or
N: Is it the same as a RAM?
A: They can play that on there. I know you can
N: The last computer I had was a big twenty, Commodore big twenty. Years ago [laughter]
?: Yeah I would have (…) [laughter]
N: I put a RAM for it as well, and er
LM: A RAM?
N: That just boosts up your, er
LM: Oh, adds sort of
PL: RAM’s the size of the, the working memory in the computer. When it’s switched on, it’s got a, it stores most of its programs
N: Mmhmm
PL: And if you want to access them, you have to be able to (1.0) er get, make them live; ‘cos they’re just like on a tape
N: Yeah
PL: So to get them live you have to store them in a memory, they have to be in its memory, and that’s the, that’s the RAM
N: I just want to say, I’ve still got it, but I don’t use it [laughter]
LM: You wouldn’t be able to see (...)
PL: The bigger the RAM is on the computer, the bigger the program you can run in it
N: Mmhmm
PL: At any one time, and the faster then it’ll run. That’s why they’re always advertising, you know, computers with more and more RAM in them
J: What are um, what do you call them now, megabytes?
PL: Well that’s the same thing, it’s the size of the, of the  
N:   Fancier name then
PL: Yeah it’s how big the RAM is. RAM’s the name of the, this kind of memory. Two kinds of memory in the computer, there’s the, where they store the programs, and there’s where they actually play the programs. And the bigger they both are; the one where they store the programs is big so you can get lots of programs on it, the one where you play the programs is big so you can play bigger programs and  
J:   (...)
N:  So can I get Internet on my big twenty then?
PL: I don’t think so [laughter]
LM: So what do you think of, of the idea of sort of shopping over the Internet, sort of compared to, you know, shopping by mail order, or just, you know, normal high street shopping?
S: Yeah, it’s good
N: It’s good, like, but  
?:   It’s good, it fascinates me, but it   
N:   I’d rather just go out shopping
A: I’d rather look round myself
J: It depends what kind of things I’d be buying, if I’m buying a can of baked beans then yeah, it’s brilliant, because it’s just not interesting buying baked beans, is it. But if you’re buying a new (1.0) suit, what  
N:   No you go yourself don’t you
J: Has got to be nice, you don’t know what colour it’s going to be really, it’s like buying make-up out of (...) isn’t it, it comes and it’s orange in the magazine and it’s red when it gets to you. Erm, and like fittings and that when you buy clothes in catalogues, they sometimes look totally different to what they are when they get there
LM: So it might be alright for some things, but 
A: Mm
N: You get a lot of messing about as well , I mean, sometimes I can buy a pair of jeans that are thirty-two waist, other times it’s thirty-four if I go and send for something, I don’t shop in catalogues, for the simple reason if they don’t fit properly, I won’t buy it. It’s too much hassle, sending them back, getting something back, you know. Just go straight to 
J: Yeah, it’s your normal everyday things like a can of beans and a bottle of coke and that, now, definitely easier. It’s easier than going to the shops and going down to the supermarket with a trolley, isn’t it?
N: How long do you have to wait for your (1.0) stuff  like that?
LM: Well if you like, use the  
N:   Just for a can of beans have to wait three weeks, I mean [laughter] just go down to the shop (...) you know, you might as well not wait
LM: With like Tesco, they do a service where if you sort of order your, send your order over the Internet and tell them what time you want it delivered, so you can arrange, you’re at work and you could get to a computer you could order your shopping and say, I want it delivered between six and seven this evening. But it’s not instant, no they won’t like you know
A: (...)
S: I suppose it’s handy for disabled though, isn’t it?
N: Well
A: Oh yeah
N: Suppose so
S: I would have imagined er (1.0) they’d find it very useful. People who are house bound or owt like that
A: Yeah they would, wouldn’t they. (2.0) Can’t see anybody (...)
S: Well, they’ve only got
A: (...) [laughter]
S: Well, they’ve only got (...) young people what’s disabled, what’s had a car accident
A: [laughs] They wouldn’t have (...) homes round here
S: I mean, people what’s generally house bound, like, what can’t get out, I mean, not everybody’s got families at home, have they, but
J: To look after your regular things, yeah
S: I would imagine that it’s a big help to them sort of people
N: Just a bit of home help, really, that’s what it is
K: Probably cheaper and all, like the price of them albums, like twelve dollars, that’s like about six and a half quid, isn’t it, something like that and your postage, cost you like a tenner, and a CD, I mean it’s fifteen, sixteen quid aren’t they
LM: I think they do quite well, from overseas, so
J: It’s good that, isn’t it. That is just brilliant, that, CDs and things 
S: Ah, I’m impressed with that, yeah, I really am, I’ve never seen owt like that before, I’m right impressed with it
LM: Is that the sort of thing you’d think, I mean CD’s  
?:   Oh definitely, I’d use that, yeah
K: I’d end up in debt though
J: I’d use it for things what I knew what they were, like, if you look at something and you know what it is, not if you look at something that might be a different colour and it might be a different size and that
A: Then you can look at it another way. You’ve paid all that for your cheap CD’s, you’re better off just going down the road, aren’t you?
K: Yeah
N: Yeah, but it depends what you want
J: Yeah but if you  
?:   I think it’s alright, I think  
N:    You can get, you can get absolutely thousands of things off that
J: There’s a lot of music what we can’t get here, so, things that you can’t get, definitely, even if you don’t know what they’re going to be like when they get here, if we can’t get them, you still want to (.) just have look 
N: It’s putting up  
S:    Such as (...) album and things like that (...)
N: You’ve got all sorts, haven’t you, thousands
S: (...)
N: They’ve got their own, they’ve got their own web pages, haven’t they? I tapped into a few of my mate’s, I mean, unbelievable
K: I don’t think, you wouldn’t buy one just, just for shopping. But if you had a computer, you had a use for a computer and you’re on to it, then you might as well use it, but I can’t see anyone just buying it purely, just for, for shopping. But, it’s good, a good thing if you’ve got one, or got a use for one, if you’re getting one
N: Depends if you’re into computers, I mean (1.0) if I were computer minded, you know, I’d love that
LM: Yeah
N: You can do all sorts, you can do anything you want, well, I’m not. It would be a waste of money to me
LM: So this wouldn’t get you into  
N:   No way
S: Well I don’t think it’d get me into it, you know, but I mean, it impressed me, I must admit
A: Yeah, I think it’s nice, but 
S: I think I’m too old to mess about with owt like that. My young ‘un  might have one, ah. I think he’d, he’d er, well they do it all at school now don’t they, I mean 
A: Yeah
S: Mine were two times table and that were it, when I went to school we had none of that so I’m just, but I’m right impressed with it, I must admit. (2.0) But I don’t think I could shop with it. Well I’m less like (...) things like, you know, I couldn’t get my groceries or owt like that on it, or
J: Why not? It’s only calling on a supermarket
S: Well I don’t know I like ramming them, with trolley [laughter] it’s not like having a good  
?: Oh so you’re one of them (…) round my ankles  
S: It’s not like having a good (…)   [laughter] know what I mean, it takes all the fun out the shopping, doesn’t it?
?: Takes all the skin off the back of my ankles
S: Sorry love [laughter]
J: Even if you’re right it is just looking at cupboards, jotting it all down, send it and then go and do something, go out
S: Oh ay, I suppose. Like I say, I think it’s, it’d be brilliant for anybody what’s disabled and that, it’d be a godsend I would imagine, for anybody what can’t get out to do their shopping. Such as them
?: Suppose it’s good for like, full-time people, full-time employment women
K: Yeah
S: Mm
J: Who are busy
?: You know like
S: Yeah, I know
?: Like, forty-odd hours a week, and you just can’t fit it in and that (3.0)
LM: Yeah, I mean who do you think these sort of services, like Tesco’s, are aimed at? Um, ‘cos you were sort of saying, you know, if you’ve got a computer already, it’s great, but, do you think the idea is to get more people using computers, or to get people who already use computers?
K: Well it’s just, it’s just more custom for them, isn’t it. They’ve got that website, the (2.0) (...) thousands of people on it won’t they so they’re not losing it, it’s more custom for them, I don’t think it’s - they’re doing us a service, but it’s more, it’s money, money for them, isn’t it, really. Access, they’ve got all access to it (3.0) But you could, you could like, do your shop, say if you’re at work, you’re working on a computer, you could, you know if you hadn’t got time to do it you could order your groceries while you’re at work and then get on with, well, you’re waiting, for how long it takes but that’s it, you saved, you’ve just done it all at work
LM: Yeah (5.0) so um, so do you (2.0) what do you think about the future, do you think this is going to be what it’s going to be like say in twenty years time, shopping, or?
K: Probably
LM: Just a fad
?: I think (…)
N: Think there’ll be more about flying supermarkets [laughter] (…) knocking on your door
LM: [laughs]
A: Everything seems to be going computerised, don’t it
S: Yeah
K: When you can, when you can buy a laptop like that, set up 

A: (…) like that, don’t they
K: Yeah
J: All, they’ve got a computer, all the school friends, they’ve all got computers, they’re getting bored with them, don’t even use them
A: Competition time, isn’t it, I know
J: They’ve all got computers now
N: Yeah, but I’m talking about laptops though, I mean  
J:   Yeah, but you don’t have a laptop, do you, you’d have just a normal one
N: You can get, you can get
A: Yeah, but it started with a Gameboy, and it, like went to a Megadrive  
N:    It started with a big twenty
A: Playstation [laughter] then  
N:   It started with 
A: Commodore. You know like, it’s got bigger and bigger and kids are, they’re in bigger and bigger ‘cos they’re getting these things aren’t they. They’re like moving up every year
J: I think computers are right in that, I mean they were like, about when I were at school, we had three or four then, but it weren’t like, what it is now, you know, everybody’s into computers, aren’t they?
A: Mm
J: Everyone is (3.0)
A: If you walk past a computer shop at (...)like, kids are like that [laughter]
J: (...) virtual reality (…)
A: Yeah
J: Chucking themselves at walls (6.0)
LM: Anything else you want to ask, Pete?
PL: Erm, no, um the other side, see what they show there?
LM: Here?
PL: We could look at Tesco’s, ‘cos we’ve been talking a bit
LM: Yeah
?: You’re dying for us to shop at Tesco’s on it, I mean, it’ll
PL: They’re the supermarket that sort of, started it
S: They were the first to go on it then, Tesco’s?
PL: Yeah, they were, the, Sainsbury’s have actually  
?:    Oh there’s Sainsbury’s on it, isn’t there now (...)
PL: They are 
K: So who delivers, who delivers their goods then, once you’ve ordered them? Have they got their own van?
LM: It’ll go to your  
PL:   Here it is
LM: You’ll order it from your local store. It’ll send your information to your main store
?: They do it at Asda
A: Oh yeah
?: We don’t need one
J: Do they do home shopping at Asda 
?: For the elderly, yeah
J: How do they do it at there?
?: Couple of women in Asda do it and they pick it, and they’ve got a big van and 
J: Really
?: Mm
PL: What, you can phone in the order can you?
?: Er, er that’s what they must do, yeah
PL: Mm
N: Do you mind if I go to the toilet, (…) something about this [laughter]
PL: So here it is, you can set up a shopping list (2.0) oops, gone wrong. (1.0) Here it is. So that’s our current shopping list that we’ve been working on, (2.0) and, I don’t know what we ordered
[laughter] Tesco’s Premium Dustbin Liners [laughter] they must be scented or something. Radox Herbal  
S:   So you can order your week’s shopping on there and they deliver it to you
PL: Yeah
S: I can’t believe that
LM: [laughs]
?: Believe it
K: Do they charge for that delivery aswell or  
?:   How much are they going to for delivery then?
PL: Fiver
?: Fiver?
S: They charge a fiver for delivery?
PL: Yeah
S: No matter where you are?
A: And no matter how much you’ve got? 
PL: You’ve got to be within a certain area
S: A certain radius, like, yeah
J: And they still charge a fiver?
PL: Yeah
J: Hmm, it’s not like ordering a pizza is it, you could easily spend seven pound [laughter]
(2.0)
LM: Do you want to have a go?
?: It’s good, though, because if people, some people I know can’t catch taxis
LM: So you could order something
[Everyone talking at once]
A: Just one press?
LM: Yeah
A: And then do you go back over there?
LM: Choices, just click
[All talking at once]
LM: You need to double click it
A: Ah
LM: There we go look, and then it tells you that it’s put it (2.0)
A: So that’s gone in my basket
LM: Yeah. So then if you go
A: 39p
LM: [laughs] Yeah
J: Does it tell you 39  
A:   Does it add it all up and everything for you? Right
LM: If you go to checklist here, we’ve got a list of
J: It’s better than (…) it’s better than (…) chocolate
?: It is, ay
LM: There we go. So it’s on
A: Mm
LM: It’s added on to the list
A: Mm
LM: Thirty-nine, one. It was getting quite expensive ‘cos we put lots of things on it
A: I was going to say. A hundred and twenty pound [laughter]
LM: It’s a big shop (4.0) So yeah, this is like, a shopping list we’ve sort of built up. And then if you  
S:   And you still pay the same rates? On credit, or could you pay cash on delivery?
LM: Go back to search
A: (...) further down
PL: No, you can’t pay cash on delivery
S: You can’t pay, you have to pay by credit?
PL: Switch card, or 
S: Oh I see, yeah
A: See, that’s what I don’t like about it
PL: Well then, they’ll let you do that um (…)  
A:   I’d rather pay on delivery
S: Yeah pay cash on delivery sort of thing, yeah
?: Print my card (…)
PL: When they come, you know you get a slip printed out, just like you do in the supermarket and you sign for it
S: Yeah
PL: They bring the slip with them. And you have sign for it (2.0)
J: Yeah yeah
PL: Just like when they, at the till
S: But you still have to give them your number
A: You still give your details on there, aren’t you
S: Still have to give your number on, on this 
PL: You can phone it in if you, if you don’t want to give it over the Internet
S: Yeah
PL: So you can phone it in
J: Well that’s better isn’t it (3.0) well I think it is (3.0)
LM: So what do you think? 
A: What, for, for, what?
LM: Um, how do you find it?
A: Um, dunno (2.0) you have to press it twice you said, didn’t you?
LM: Yes
A: And then (2.0) what else? Is that it? And then go back over here
LM: Which one did you? 
A: Can’t remember now, just went into one. And went (2.0)
LM: Hmm.
( LM and A are speaking in the foreground and the others are having a different conversation in the background, most of which is indistinguishable)
K: Are they all like that going on this then, all the supermarkets?
A: So that’s that, and then what do you do?
PL: Sainsbury’s have just started
LM: If you want to check it, you go to checklist 
A: Oh right, that’s how you do it, you go to 
LM: That was the 
A: And then you press it. Is it just once, or twice?
LM: Just once to change there, and then it should  
S: Sainsbury’s and Tesco’s already on it then on it
PL: Yeah
LM: Should be listed 
A: Please press the F key whenever you need help. Woo, shall we press it? (2.0) Where’s F,A,B,C,D. Shall I?
LM: What’s that?
A: Press the F key, they said 
S: Anybody know what’s going in that place?
A: Is that right?
LM: F1, it’s that one
A: Oh, you don’t have to do that then, yeah? (2.0)
LM: Ooh (2.0)
K: If I win the lottery I’ll make it into a big luxury bundle of  
A:   So then you can go into all these then (2.0) Mm?
LM: Yeah. (3.0) Yeah, this comes with the sort of (2.0) Tesco sort of shopping packet, so that gives you help, and things (…)
PL: So while you’re doing this you’re not on the phone, that’s just plugged into the computer. And you make your order up and then you just phone it in. So you’re not, you don’t have all the cost of using the Internet
N: It dials, doesn’t it, to tell you, beep beep beep beep beep 
J: So why  
N:   Yeah, it dials into your phone
J: Why are we all (…)  
S:   So this is just like shopping list is it?
LM: Cos you, you know (…)
PL: (…) with this program (…)
N: Is it, when you start ordering it’ll start 
PL: Yes
N: Cos it like, it dials your phone, you know, digital line. Beep beep beep beep beep beep beep it goes like that
PL: (…) when you’re selecting your shopping list then it’s not costing you anything
S: That’s not costing you owt when you’re just at home
PL: No 
K: Well just your normal electricity bill
?: (…)
?: Yeah (3.0)
?: No, I still don’t like it [laughter]
PL: Why not, why not?
?: Well I do, yeah, it fascinates me, but I’ve no time to mess about with that. No, I’d rather just nip down, do it in half an hour and come back
S: Yep. Get your stuff home, yeah
J: But once you  
?:   I’ve no patience with owt like that
J: (…) in five minutes. Never mind half an hour
?: No. I’ve no patience with owt  
A: Surely (…) not just (…) not, not for just shopping, I know, they’re not, are they? No (2.0)
K: Well (1.0)
S:  Oh well, I think what you said about working women like, it must be handy for such as them, innit?
?: (…)
N: Would you like to do your shopping on this, or would you prefer to (…)?
S: I don’t think it’s aiming at everybody, like, is it, it’s only certain people that  
LM: Well I think, it would be quite interesting to do it, but
N: Or have you done any, you haven’t done any shopping then? (1.0)
LM: I’ve only bought, I’ve bought one thing, I’ve bought a book
?: Have you?
N: Would you, would you do your actual grocery shopping on it, or?
LM: I think there are some things I’d buy, yeah  
?: I’m surprised, you know why I  
LM:   Things that I bought all the time that I didn’t need to (1.0) see
?: (…) Christmas time
A: Or if you’re going on holiday
?: (…) I like fresh (…)
A: (…) so many kids are at such an age
N: What do you mean, buy  
A: I’d buy them a CD, or (…)
N: What wouldn’t you buy off that then?
LM: What would I?
N: What wouldn’t you?
LM: (…) like fresh fruit
N: Is it good for you, first off?
J: If you know exactly what you want, so like my niece comes and says (…) Barbie doll  
LM:   Well I’ll probably use it for things I buy all the time, like beans. You don’t need to be there, because you can sort of see that it’s a good (…)
N: If you just want to buy a can of beans, but then go and do your shopping at the supermarket, I mean, what aren’t you going to buy? I mean, you’re still going to have to go to the supermarket, aren’t you?
LM: [laughs] I don’t know
?:  (…) that would be handy for me
N: No, I’m just asking
LM: (…) like going to the corner shop
N: Yeah
LM: You know
N: So you’re going to buy a can of beans, a can of peas, but (…) do the rest of your shopping at the shop
?: Can you get, erm, things like  
N: You’re either going to do one whole thing there, or nothing, no I mean I’m just asking
A: Shares
LM: Well, no, I mean
A: Not shares, what is it?
N: So you’re going to do half your shopping on that and then the rest I’ll go down to the shop?
LM: No, I mean  
?:   Can you get the stock market on it?
N: It’s pretty pointless, I mean, why don’t you just do the lot while you’re at the shops?
?: Can you?
LM: Well the supermarket near me is like quite a long journey away, so it’s quite good in that  
N:   But if you’re going to buy half on that and then half in the shop you might as well buy the lot from the shop
J: No
LM: But it’s a lot more expensive
N: That’s my point, I mean you’ve just said to me that you, I’m not going to (…)
?: Ooh, he’s going to have a row with you [laughter]
N: Just saying, you’ve just said I’ll probably buy a can of beans on, you know, there. So you buy your beans, ravioli, whatever, tuna on that, and then you’ll go to the shop and buy fish stock, I mean  
LM:   Well the reason I’d probably do it is because  
N:   Why don’t you just buy the lot from the shop?
LM: The reason I’d probably do it is because it’s quite heavy things like, big things like washing powder, cans, I don’t have a car, supermarket’s fifteen, twenty minute walk away 
?: Yeah
LM: If I spend thirty quid on heavy cans and stuff, I’ve got to lug it all home, I’d rather you know
N: Yeah but, for two  
LM:   Just nip down to the corner shop for some fruit and veg
N: Two thousand pounds you could buy, you know, not a bad car, and go shopping
A: Yeah, but it’s not only for shopping is it, when you think about it
?: Well I wouldn’t have thought that anybody was going to get one of them just to do the weekly shop on
N: Well for your shopping no, I mean 
?: It’s not, is it?
N: How do you do your shopping? If you don’t drive you just (1.0) go on the bus
K: But if I had one, I’d use it. ‘Cos I’m lazy
J: I would
K: But when you want, when you want a packet of fags, there’s a shop only at the top of the road, but I don’t walk, I go in the car [laughter] (…) (5.0)
N: What would you say, you could like, you could order some beer you know, walk down to the pub, what would you do? Walk down to the pub  
K:   The pub like, that’s different
N: You’re not that lazy to walk down to the pub?
K: Oh no, I’m not too lazy to do that
N: You’re too lazy to walk for a packet of fags
K: If I could, but there were, there were air conditioning, refrigeration, you see those big freezer packs in supermarkets
LM: Yeah
K: We’re supposed to be getting laptops, er, next year, we’re merging with another company
LM: Oh right
K: But er, us engineers, say we’re on twenty-four hour call-out, they’ve got laptop computers with a mobile phone, and they can, they can type to say that there’s a job in Grimsby, something like that, they can phone this, er, phone this site so put the computer upon site, and it’ll tell them what’s wrong with it and then they can reset this unit over the phone and book overtime and they haven’t left the house
J: Wow
K: I think that’s, really, that’s great (3.0)
LM: Alright, I think we’re sort of beginning to run out of time. Got anything else, Pete?
PL: There’s, sort of erm, some of the alternative sites?
LM: Still got time?
PL: What time did we start?
LM: Got about fifteen minutes
S: (…) ah that’s alright (…)
?:  (…) eat in a couple of hours, I’ve stopped smoking
J: Ah, I’m dying for a cigarette, are we allowed to smoke? (…)
LM: I don’t know
[Computer: Welcome to Compuserve]
LM: So loud, where’s the volume (…)
A: (…) but if I drink [laughter]
A: That’s why I haven’t had a drink, either
N: Are you allowed to smoke in here, though?
?: I don’t know
?: (…)
PL: Shall I go and ask?
J: I’m having a cigarette anyway [laughter]
PL: Oh alright
J: Ashtray? Is there an ashtray? (1.0) I’m not using that, it’s got (…) I’ll use this
N: Would you just mind asking Vera? Is that alright, see if she’s got an ashtray.
If she doesn’t mind. Thank you. (2.0) It’s only polite (…)
A: She smokes (…)
N: What, Vera smokes?
A: I’ve seen her
N: Nice one (4.0)
J: What are we doing with it now then?
[Computer: ‘you have new mail waiting’]
N: Can we shop for new videos and televisions on this?
S: Can we type, can we type something in and let it search for like er just for somebody’s website?
LM: Well I was kind of going to try and show you a different sort of, oops, shopping site. Where’s this (3.0) what, Pete, the volume’s (…)
PL: There it is. Just drag it down a bit (2.0) That’s great (2.0)
S: Is that your own laptop then, there?
PL: Well  
A:   Or have you borrowed it? [laughs]
N: It’s the university’s
LM: Yeah [laughs]
PL: It’s not ours, personally
LM: Right, okay
A: So have you taught yourself how to use this, or (2.0) have you been on a course, or 
?: I think   
J:   Do you know what is frustrating about going on courses?
PL: No, I haven’t gone on any courses
A: No, you’ve just like 
J: (…)
S: You’ve picked it up as you’ve gone on, have you? Have you?
?: So you’ve spent some hours, haven’t you? On it
PL: Oh yeah
?: Yeah
J: Don’t you get, like, frustrated and bored, what if, like when you make mistakes and you think, how did I get (…)
PL: Well  
A:   I suppose at first you do and then I suppose you get into it, don’t you?
PL: When I started using computers, we, it was nothing like this. There were no desktops or anything
J: Yeah
PL: We had one central computer in the university
S: Yeah
PL: And you had a terminal attached to it. And it ran so slowly. It ran at, I think it was like three hundred (…), that’s bits, per second. This one runs at nine thousand, six hundred
A: Ah yeah
PL: And it was so slow, now that was really frustrating because you used to type, and then you used to wait for the words to come up on screen. It was that slow
N: Me and my big twenty when I put a game to load, you know, put a tape in, you’ve got to, from nought you’ve got to wait till it gets to a hundred and fifty; it was like, one, two, go and have a bath, have some tea, you know, the game might be loaded
S: That Sinclair’s got a lot to answer for, when you think of that [laughter]
A: Who?
S: Sinclair, who started it all
PL: Spectrum
S: Yeah, Spectrum, ay
N: That were all muddled up weren’t it
?: (…)
A: What’s this you’ve got on now then?
J: What’s this?
LM: Oh, just sort of one last thing, really, is to um, (1.0) is to sort of show you this site which is um, it’s a kind of anti-MacDonalds site, and um
N: Who, sorry?
LM: You know all the stuff about MacDonalds
?: Yeah
LM: All the sort of libel cases against them
A: Oh yeah
LM: This is a, a site  
N:   You mean Coronation Street, don’t you?
LM: Hmm?
N: MacDonald
S: Mad cow, is there owt about mad cow on that. Mad cow disease or what have you
LM: Yeah, it’s got loads of stuff about MacDonalds on it, but, um it’s kind of like a sort of consumer awareness type sort of website, and there’s lots of those kind of things springing up on the Internet, and I just wondered what you thought of that sort of thing going on
N: (…)
J: What does it say?
S: Like spotlight. Like spotlight
N: Has it got all the stories on it as well, like people saying they found rats in their  
A:   Tissues
J: Yeah
PL: Campaigns
?: Put Campaigns on
PL: Shall we try that?
?: Yeah
PL: I haven’t seen this either (2.0)
?: (…) to use campaigns (3.0)
J: (…)
N: There was a story actually, at MacDonalds, saying that um, a woman, you know the MacChicken Sandwich, said she found a boil on it
?: Ooh
J: A what?
N: A boil, on the MacChicken Sandwich. But how can you have a boil on er compressed chicken, you know [laughter]
S: But there, um  
A:   [laughs]
N: It must be, you know, it must be some boil
(…) [laughter]
N: She’d actually gone forward and said that. How can you, you know, some boil (…) compressed chicken  
S:   (…)there were a cyst on the chicken
N: How can you have that?
J: (…)
N: It’s all compressed so how can you have that?
?: (…)
A: I’m a veggie (1.0) I am, I am
J: Are you?  Are you a veggie, my sister’s a veggie
?: (…)
A:  I started it three years ago, and  
PL: Alright, alright. So these are the different campaigns that are being run at the moment
N: (…) Big Mac
PL: (…) campaigns. Yeah. Residents Against MacDonalds: local people trying to stop MacDonalds invading their area. Adopt a Store, UK-wide network of (…) MaDdonalds
J: Why, what do MacDonalds do, what’s so bad?
N: Well they put rats in their burgers, and  
A:   They don’t, that’s just a load of  
N:   I know, that’s what I’m saying, though; that’s what people say, you know. I eat MacDonalds all the time
PL: Operation Send It Back, returning MacDonalds’ litter to whence it came. Shall we look at that one?
LM: [laughs]
?: Litter?
J: That’s not their fault. It’s people that eat it
N: Try and feed a million people and they all bought a soft drink (…) litter
S: That’s not bad, is it, for a million
PL: That’s what MacDonalds have said and then this is their argument against that. If you would like to start sending it back to your area please get in touch. Oh it’s by Veggies Limited
[laughter]
A: That’s me
PL: Mansfield Road, Nottingham
A: Yeah, that’s me (2.0)
?: Ah
?: Mm
J: I think that sounds like a load of rubbish, and I’d just laugh at it
S: Well look, one of my mates is a security guard at the MacDonalds down town. He said the most profitable MacDonalds in the world is that one at (…)
A: Is it?
S: Last Christmas they were taking sixty thousand pound an hour
A: It’s always chock-a-block
N: An hour?
S: An hour
N: Bloody hell
J: I hate MacDonalds
S: You’d think it was something like New York, something like that, but that, that wouldn’t be the one (2.0)
K: There’s a lot of people there though, aren’t there
A: There’s loads of people
N: There’s people come worldwide, don’t they, for that
K: If you go in and a meal’s like, like three and a half quid
A: (…) Benidorm and that now haven’t they?
?: Yeah
PL: This is er, how, this is how to mount a campaign if they’re having a MacDonalds in your area that you don’t want, it’s what letters to write, who to write them to, so it’s sort of like advice on how to  
N:   How can you not want a MacDonalds?
PL: [laughs]
J: (…) I know it sounds boring but what about if they were like, building houses, so like, they were building houses at the bottom of your road, yeah, I’d get into it, things like that, or erm, (1.0) open-cast mining, god. Yeah, definitely, it’s just an eyesore (2.0)
LM: There’s lots of things like that on the Internet, where people are saying, this is how to like, you know  
?:   (…)
LM: Or get involved, or  
N:   This is when it starts coming in useful, then, the Internet, you know, things you want, you know, there’ll be this stuff [Computer: ‘leaving CompuServe’] you want to know about. So yeah, everything (2.0)
J: But not MacDonalds
N: Can it tell me how many MacDonalds they’ve got in this country and how many in America, and how many?
LM: It probably would. You’d probably find it on there somewhere
N: How many worldwide, yeah (3.0) I’d like to be Mr MacDonald, put it that way (3.0)
K: What’s that, the nudist?
LM: [laughs]
J: (…) in disguise
N: I’m not  
J:   No, because that’s just freezing (…)
N: I’m not being funny to anybody, I’m not being a liar, but I’ve seen the pornographic channel on here and it’s pretty damn good. So (1.0) I’m not being a liar to anybody, I’m er  
LM:   [laughs]
PL: Oh well, it’s er  
N: It’s all one
S: See, you’re talking to an expert here [laughter]
N: I bet you’ve had it on a few times
A: (…) him in the corner [laughter]
K: So what do we do, this is the main menu this is?
N: Quiet people are the worst, aren’t they?
K: (…) one of these sites or is this? 
LM: These are nothing to do with the Internet, they’re just like programs
PL: (…) the computer
K: Right. So you go on to that Internet then, to go onto it again (1.0) Go on to that, to get back on
LM: It’s not that, it’s CompuServe, but I think we ought to – we’re running out of time at this point
K: Right
?: If you pay us another fifteen pounds, we’ll stay here till (…) [laughter]
LM: I’ve got some more people coming round (2.0)
?: (…)  
N:   Can I just have move of this mouse?
?: (…)
N: Feels pretty good, yeah
LM: Better than the average mouse, yeah
N: That’s it
K: (…) that one at work, now 
N: It’s impressive that I must admit, wish I had  
?:   We’ve got PC’s at work, so that’s all I use. I work at an electrical wholesalers’ so I’ve got all the stock on
?: (…)
K: What’s that then, that file then, that Nudist one, is that a program, what’s that, it’s nothing to do with, to do with the Internet?
N: (…) stick it on [laughs]
?: A few more beers (…)
PL: It’s a, it’s a program where, it’s a program for managing files and for analysing the contents of them. It’s really quite boring
LM: It’s the opposite of what it sounds like really
PL: It’s the opposite of what, yeah, it sounds like
N: What do you mean? You don’t really think anything like that
K: There’s a lot of (…) on the Internet, you see
PL: Yeah [laughter]
PL: That’s a statistical analysis program. And that’s a program for doing presentations. And that’s a spreadsheet program for doing calculations
J: So you can do your own presentations
PL: Yeah, it’s really good. Here it is (5.0) So you can set up your slides any way you want
N: Hmm
PL: And then you can just add in what your presentation’s about (4.0) and then you can add to that. And then you can plug this computer in to a projector
K: Yeah
PL: And it’ll project it up on screen for you
J: That’s good, isn’t it
N: Have you both got Internet at home, or 
PL: I have, yeah (3.0)
N: So are you going to get it in the future, or  
PL:   What’s happened to Word?
LM: Not for the time being
N: No
J: What are you looking for now then?
?: You’ve got to watch pennies, haven’t you, these days [laughs]
PL: I’ve lost a program
?: Well, exactly, yeah
J: You’ve lost what you were just doing?  (3.0)
PL: Oh there it is. Okay
?: (…)
S: It must be, it must save them a fortune, businessmen. Stocks and shares and all that sort of stuff

Group 12, North of England, 08.05.98
ABC1 Mixed


Participants			A   A (teacher)
				R   R (building society)
				S   S (teacher)
				Su   Su
				J   J (works in school office)
				Ro   R
						
Comments	


PL: Okay well what we want you to talk about tonight er is um shopping over the Internet, using the Internet to do shopping (…) um but first what I’d like to do is just go around the group and if you could just introduce yourselves, and er say what sort of experience you’ve had of computing generally (.) Do you want to start?
A: Yeah my name’ s A um I’m a teacher in Barnsley er basically the only, the experience I’ve had with computers is just through schools, erm (…) university, spent quite a bit of time using the Internet, things like that at university, and basically just carried it on from, from there into the school 
PL: Right
A: (…)
PL: Do you have a computer at home at all?
A: Yeah
PL: What kind is it?
A: Just a basic PC 
PL: Right
A: It’s not, it’s nothing special
PL: Are you connected up to the Net?
A: No I’m not
PL: What about the school, is that?
A: Yeah, yeah
PL: Okay (2.0)
R: I’m R I work for a building society, I just use a computer as a (1.5) everyday work really 
PL: Right
R: Um, I’m the same, I used a computer at university
PL: What sort of functions at work do you use it for?
R: Just processing, putting data in, um accounts, things like that
PL: Yeah (1.5)
R:  Not very exciting
PL: Internet? Tried that?
R: Er no
PL: Okay (1.0)
S: Okay my name’s S. I’m a teacher so I’ve just really got experience of computers at school
PL: Right
S: Nothing, no Internet or anything, nothing very
PL: What, are they sort of like BBC’s and Apples and things in the classroom?
S: Yeah, yeah. We’ve just got two PC’s but they’ve (1.0) I’ve not, I’ve been on one once but I’ve not used it with the children yet, so I’m not very good on with that so, I think they’re hoping to get linked up to the erm (1.5) Internet but I don’t know when that’ll happen so
PL: But at some point they will
S: Yeah
PL: They will come on line, yeah.  Okay. What about at home have you got?
S: No, I haven’t got one at home, no
PL: Okay
SU: Hello I’m Su. I recently changed my job and um the job I’m doing now I don’t use the computer at all but until recently I was at the er dental hospital using a computer every day
PL: Right
SU: I’ve got one at home, but my knowledge is pretty basic and (1.0) I know nothing about the Internet really
PL: Right, okay
J: I’m J, I er, I work in a school office and I use a computer just for word processing and putting in information about the children on the records. I’ve got one at home and I just use it for word processing
PL: Right
RO: My name’s R, I’m the commercial manager of an electrical contracting company er I have a laptop permanently fixed to my person (1.5) er I use it basically for sort of sending (1.0) faxes electronically, and downloading from the palmtop computer as well and er (1.0) word processing, (…) packages on Excel, and accounts programmes and that so, er that’s about it really.  I don’t use the Internet but (…) address which also as a company we have access to the Internet through that
PL: Right, have you had a go at that?
RO: Not allowed, unfortunately, for security [laughs]
PL: Right so they limit who can (…)
RO: They’re concerned, the company as a group worldwide are a bit concerned about security on the Internet
PL: Right, right
Ro: (…)
PL: Right (1.0) What about shopping on the Internet, have you heard about it, what have you heard? (2.0)
SU: Just that it’s there [laughs] really (1.5)
Ro: Copies of Kay’s Catalogue popping up on there [laughs] 
Ro: (…) ordering it and zipping your switch card through it and you’re away
PL: Right. Is that what you imagine it’s like?
Ro: Yeah
PL: Well we’re going to see it in a minute, so (1.0) has anyone heard of any particular (1.5) services that have, use any particular shops or (…)  before (2.0)
?: No
PL: Well shall we have a look at it then, do you want a go at it (2.0) Right who’s going to work the laptop?
?: Sorry?
PL: Who’s going to work the laptop?
?: Go on J, don’t worry
J: Me?
PL: Yeah come on [laughs]
PL: Hang on I think the battery might be running out, I’ll just check. (2.0) Oh no we’re alright. (3.0) Do you want a go?
?: Go on then [laughs]
?: Chill out
PL: Alright let’s try um (2.5) let’s try CompuServe here
?: Is it double click on here?
PL: Yeah, sorry (6.0)
Computer : Welcome to CompuServe (3.0)
?: Right where shall we go?
PL: Alright well we can connect either by, yeah pressing on that little
?: On the world
PL: On the world, yeah [laughs] the World Wide Web (6.0) alright so you are familiar with this, that CompuServe is an Internet  
?:   I’ve heard of it
PL: Is an Internet provider? (2.0)
Ro: Are there just basically two providers now? There’s America Online isn’t there? 
PL: Right
Ro: Which swallowed up somebody else didn’t it
PL: Mmm. And then CompuServe
Ro: Yeah
PL: Actually there are a lot of other smaller providers that don’t advertise as much and provide different kinds of services (3.0) so now it’s, the modem’s here, and it’s now dialling
?: (…) [laughter]
PL: So now it’s just checking my account name to see that I’ve paid. (1.5) I have, so we can get on. (2.0) And this is now, do you know what this is? (2.0)
?: No
PL: It’s a search engine that allows you to browse the Net to find different Internet sites
A: Oh right
PL: If you go here and click that little arrow
A: Sorry, where are we going?
PL: This one here
A: That one there?
PL: Yeah, just click once on that, now here’s a list of sites, shopping sites that we’ve already visited to set it up so you can get to them easily so what would you fancy?
A: Adbusters, Marks and Spencer’s
PL: Yeah? [laughter]  
A: Shall we see what else there is (3.0)
?: Barclay Square, Waterstones, Amazon, Tesco 
PL: Loot Online, CD Now, what do you fancy?
A: Going to Marks and Spencer’s I think
PL: Do you want to check that one out first?
J: Yeah
PL: Go on then (17) it’s now going to the Marks and Spencer’s website let’s see what it’s like. We can make this a bit bigger (3.0) there we go (7.5) is that it? [laughs]
A: (…) oh here we go, store directory, search, customer services
PL: Oh right (6.0)
?: Looks like lots of spring things in (5.0)
PL: Store directory search what do you want to look at? Customer Services? Store directory?
?: Not much there is there really
PL: Not much there is there, no
?: Mmm
PL: May be they’re building it or doing something to it at the moment (5.0)
?: Ah here we go (3.0)
PL: Ah okay
?: So we can click on the (3.5)
PL: That’s not a sensitive map, sometimes these sites have sensitive maps so you can actually go, you know, find a place and click on it, oh maybe it is
?: Yeah it’s got a pointer on it
PL: Yeah look, Cambridgeshire, Lincolnshire, Derbyshire
A: South Yorkshire
PL: Is that South Yorkshire?
A: There you go
PL: Right (2.5) Oh okay. Oh right, so that’s
?: (…)
A: What’s this on line store (…)?
PL: I don’t know
A: Is that the?
PL: Go on, have a go (3.0) I didn’t know they had an online store
?: There we go (2.0) (…) gift (6.0)
PL: Looks like there’s a home shopping catalogue there (4.0)
?: (…) home catalogue (…) click on these
PL: It looks like they sell flowers, recipe of the month 
?: (…) (7.0) (…) wedding services (…) 
PL: Oh so the wedding service would be like, you could (2.0) set up your name and then people can go to it and order your wedding gift
?: Mmm (5.0)
PL: Oh these are gift vouchers
A: Let’s look at the wedding services then. See if you can (3.0) set your wedding list or something
?: Are you getting married?
?: No (3.5)
PL: This is not, Marks and Spencer’s don’t really have a site where you can shop as you can see
A: No, it’s a bit  
PL:   It’s mainly information and  
?:   Mmm
PL: Stuff (3.0)
S: Do you know who does have a site (1.0) for shopping?
PL: Oh yeah
?: How do we come out of here?
?: So do we order this then, how do we get out of this?
PL: Yeah go there again and get the set of sites on the top
?: Oh so you just 
PL: Click on that again yeah
?: Bring it back up
PL: Yeah, er try, well, what about Waterstone’s, shall we look at the bookshop?
R: Waterstones (…) (2.0)
PL: Here we are yeah let’s check that out (30.0)
R: What’s this, [coughs] what’s this bit here? Club books, the er Waterstones magazine
?: Book seeker
RO: Book seeker
S: Search for book, have they got it, does anybody know any books? [Laughs]
PL: Yeah (10.0)
RO: Move the screen down a bit more (5.0)
PL: You can click on there and that’ll go further down, that little down arrow
A: Yeah
PL: That’ll take you further down, into the site, here we go, so you can, now click in the space, and put in an author who do you want to hear about? Any suggestions?(2.0)
?: Anybody?
J: Look for John Grisham’s latest novel
A: Grisham
J: Mm. Do you need his first name as well or
PL: Let’s try just Grisham and see
A: Is it Grisham?
J: Yeah, H A M
A: Grisham
PL: If you come down a bit further, and just put that much in, because we don’t know which specific books so we just say. (2.0) You’re about to send information  
A:   (…) what you are sending, do you want to continue?
PL: Yeah
A: Yeah why not
PL: We don’t mind them knowing we’re looking for John Grisham’s book  (6.0) okay (3.0)
A: Chamber, The Chamber
PL: Do you know what the latest one is called?
J: No [Laughs]
A: The Client?
J: No it’s not that
R: (…) titles forty four
PL: He’s written forty four all the hardback and paperback versions (.) well you can go on one, do you want to pick on one say, say you’re interested in The Client yeah
A: Oh alright yeah, let’s go
R: Let’s look at audiocassette then
PL: Oh is that a cassette, you have to get on the underlying bit
A: Ah right, oh yeah (8.0)
J: So if you felt, if you were looking for that particular book and you see it like that, could you order it?
PL: Yeah , if we come down here again
A: I’ve just tried that actually, it doesn’t seem to scroll (.) no that’s, that’s it
PL: Let me just try something, (5.0) no I think it’s hung up now hasn’t it.  It’s got lost in its searching. Oh yeah look, it’s completely crashed
?: It’s crashed (4.0)
PL: Hum, that’s it [Laughs] (12.0) Are we still connected? (5.0) Try again (12.0) it’s dialling again now (7.0) yeah so what it should have gone to next was an order form, and it has little boxes and you type in your name, address, credit card number
?: Yeah
?: Oh right
J: And then they post it to you then
PL: Yeah, you have to, there is a charge for post and package. (5.0) So what do you think about that?
S: How safe would your visa card number be, you know if you typed it in there?
?: Yeah, well all the security people have said you know people can find out (.) information, can they find out your visa card number?
PL: Well, what do you think?
?: Well they [coughs] well probably  [Laughter] well I’ve heard that when you’re connected over the Internet, you can read whatever’s on there, anybody else has got access to the hard drive of your machine anyway.
PL: Right, right so they can get  
?: It’s like an, it’s like an open link
PL: Right, they can get hold of what you’re doing
?: Mm
PL: Do you think that’s a concern about it? (1.0)
?: Oh I don’t think so  
?:   Well I don’t know, it depends whether, I mean at the end of the day you’d be sending it to your home won’t you with the credit card’s registered at your home address so you ring up with a credit card number and say ‘I don’t want it to be sent to my home address, I want it to be sent somewhere else’
PL: Yeah right
?: I very much doubt they’d send it you
?: You might as well go just go and buy it hadn’t you, from the shop, if it’s going to be all that hassle
?: Yeah
?: Yeah (1.0)
PL: Well what about something, I mean we can go to a bookshop but there’s something like let’s try Loot shall we?
J: You get a certain amount of pleasure going shopping for books and clothes don’t you  
?:   Yeah I think so (…)
?: Personal things like that, you know I mean food yeah, if I used it I’d probably use it for shopping for basic food items
PL: Right, we’ll look at  
J:   Things that I would get every week
PL: We’ll look at Tesco’s in a minute and see what you think of that
?: I think its good for sort of, [coughs] I can see it’d be good for buying books, say books for business
PL: Right
?: You know you don’t want to be browsing for books for business, you just want to be able to see what there is and buy it
PL: Well here’s another book shop, it’s an American company, where you can buy your books in American dollars, a lot cheaper than buying them in England, so it has that advantage
?: But what about postage?
PL: Yes but the post isn’t that expensive and you know  
?:   What about import duty?
PL: (…) it’s a standard price. Sorry go on
?: Are you not to pay any import duty or anything?
PL: Well, that’s an interesting question
?: Or incoming, incoming VAT? You know you do when you (…)road don’t you?
PL: Yes but I mean if it’s sent by mail who knows  
?: Who’s going to know?
PL: Exactly
?: They’re won’t find out ‘cause it’s on the invoice  
PL: You could declare it of course, couldn’t you, you could put it on your tax return [Laughs]
?: The VAT man’ll be scrawling through the Internet see who’s been buying from abroad [Laughter]  getting your address (1.0)
PL: One of the things that they do here I mean compared to the one were looking at, Waterstone’s a British company, is that they, they um, they, you can buy second hand books on this on book bargains here we are, (.) and you can read reviews that other readers have written about the book, so if you get a book from them you can send in a review by e-mailing it to them and then you can read reviews so with the latest John Grisham’s book you can see  what other readers think of it. So  there are sort of additional services that you can , that they can offer you that a bookshop can’t. (2.0) I can’t find where it is on the site but that’s something that they do.  What do you think of the layout of the site? 
A: Looks more er friendly than the  Waterstone’s one, the Waterstone’s one was a bit (.) bleak really wasn’t it?
PL: Hmm.  (2.0) There’s quite a lot on this though isn’t there?  (.) Right let’s have a look
A: It all seems to be on one page though doesn’t it?
PL: Mm, yeah.  Let’s have a look at (8.0)
A: Where’s Tesco (…)?
PL: Oh I’ll show you that in a sec
A: Alright
PL: This one’s Loot. (5.0) For (.) second hand um (.) shopping, find it with Loot.  Who wants to buy something? Here we go into the search form (2.0). Anyone think of anything? Second hand?
?: Antique pine fridge? [Laughter]
?: Antique pine fridge, old 1920’s antique pine fridge no less [Laughter]
PL: A 1920’s fridge. 
?: Yeah galvanised tub for ice
?: Yeah there are
PL: Compartments with doors, excellent, yes. (.) Probably wouldn’t be very good as a fridge
?: Let’s look for a child’s slide [laughter] (…) for one of those [laughter]
PL: I’ll just put slide in then and see what it does oops
A: Is um Autotraders on the Internet as well isn’t it? Now that is useful, because you just type you know, that you want a 1983 Saab, and it’ll see what’s in there rather than having to trawl through sort of a thousand pages
PL: Did we get anything? No, don’t think they found any slides. No so they didn’t have any slides
?: Children’s toys?
?: Perhaps children, if you put children’s slide, would that narrow it down a bit?
PL: Let’s see (3.0)
?: Or um (1.0) play slide? (5.0)
PL: No, oh wait, yeah climbing frame
?: Climbing frame
PL: There we go
?: [coughs] Close
PL: Yeah
? Liverpool [laughter]
PL: It’s in Liverpool [llaughter]
?: It’s wanted aswell [laughter]
PL: You can then click that there and it puts it on your clipboard, so you can go through picking things out and adding them to your clipboard and then look at what you’ve got at the end, when you print out the clipboard and then you can go and ring the one in Liverpool and see if you want this  
?:   I presume this is a, like a nation wide  
PL: Yeah
?: Ad mag thing
PL: Yeah it is
? So how do you place adverts on it then?
PL: You can do that, (.) where is it? It’s like an e-mail system. (8.0) Do you know how to do it Liz?
LM: Um [laughter] yeah,  um go back to the home page and it should  
PL:   Oh right, yeah
?: It’ll place an ad at the top
LM: Yeah  
?:   In the middle
PL: Oh right,  you’re right there it is. Okay. (2.0) That’s it okay, so here you write down you’re telephone number, name, type all that in, say what kind of thing it is, what category of thing it is, (2.0)and then you’re allowed to write your description of it in there
?: Mm
A: Something like that I can see it’s useful for, ‘cause it’s like the Autotrader, things that you’re going to have to look through, or perhaps the, you know Telegraph Property Guide or whatever, where you’re going to do it at home anyway, you know you’re going to flick through the pages of a book or whatever  
?:   Perhaps for catalogues aswell you might do it  
?: (…) catalogue [laughs]
PL: [laughs] Yeah. You can put, yeah, some catalogues are going on line, yeah. (2.0) If we get um, did you put NatWest on Liz?
LM: No, I don’t think so
PL: No it wasn’t NatWest was it?
?: Barclays, where’s Barclays, oh Berkeley Square, (.) Legal and General’s on
PL: Legal and General where’s that?
?: I’ve see that somewhere, Legal and General next one down
PL: Oh there it is. That’s another kind of company that’s using the Net (1.0) and they’re introducing Internet banking aswell so you can check what’s in your bank accounts, (.) so you know, pay my access bill or whatever. (1.0) So this one is information about how to save and invest and you can calculate the cost of a mortgage for example
?: Eventually they’ll have to give free lessons on how to use the Internet won’t they?
?: Well yeah
?: Its quite user friendly though isn’t it?
?: Yeah, yeah they are supposed to be
?: There’s s few basics I think  
?: You have to be quite intelligent I think when it comes to things like this (5.0)
PL: Well I think one development that’s in the pipeline is um that they’re going to introduce, when digital television comes out you’ll be able to have a little desk, um television box that sits on your box, on your television set and hooks you into the Internet
?: Oh right
PL: And then it’ll be menu driven, you’ll just have to, you know, just like your TV controller what’s it called the 
?: The remote
?: Remote control
PL: The remote yeah, remote control [Laughter] thanks and you’ll just, you’ll just, you’ll just do it on remote control, it’ll say, it’ll say ‘oh what do you want to do, do you want to search for something, one particular thing’ and you just press the number and (…)  
?:   How far away from that are we?
PL: Well digital television? Another year or two
?: Oh right
PL: It depends
A: The TV’s are out aren’t they?
PL: Yeah, yeah, but these sorts of services aren’t developed yet
?: No
PL: But, so, that kind of service where the sort of,  you won’t necessarily need a computer and so on will be a development. (2.0)  But the, that’s different to the Internet which is this huge thing, where you search all over the world and so on
?: Mm, yeah
PL: (…) menu driven will restrict your choice but will be simpler to use (3.0) alright let me show you the Tesco’s site then
?: Can you book a holiday on this then?
PL: Oh you can yeah, yeah let’s look at that. Got it on here somewhere, (3.0) oh it’s in Berkley square isn’t it?
?: How do you know it’s in Berkley square?
PL: I put it in there. [laughter] Now Berkley Square is like a shopping mall on the Internet, it’s got lots of different companies all on one site (10.0) [Laughs] (.) It’s telling you about security, Berkeley Square’s goal is to make your on-line shopping experience safe and enjoyable, that’s how they’re going to deal with this isSu that we talked about (.) it’s open 24 hours a day. (.) It’s open to all (…) [laughs]
? : If you’re on-line
PL: It’s got a café, here we are we’ll go to the shops (10.0) Argos (8.0) Country Crafts, Interflora, (…) Corner, Toys R ‘Us, Victoria Wine (5.0), what was it we were going to look for?
?: Holidays
?: Holidays
PL: Thomas Cook (2.0) Airline Network, BT
?:  Compass travel
PL: Eurostar,  Sainsbury’s, Thomas Cook’s, here we are
? Why are some in black and some in blue?
PL: They’re the ones we’ve looked at before
?: The black ones
PL: Mm
?: Aha
PL: You’re on-line with Thomas Cook (5.0) So this is now Thomas Cook’s website that we’ve switched to and these are the different things you can do (.)
?: Late deals
PL: Do you want to try that?
?: Um [laughter]
PL: It’s flashing [laughter]
?: Might find something
l?: You never know do you?  I’ve got me credit card on me [laughter] (5.0)
PL: So there are flights, holidays, (2.0) holidays or flights?
?: Yeah
PL: Holidays?
?: Hmm (10.0)
PL: So you can say when, doing what, where, and how much so we can choose these things now, so shall we look and see what it does? When? (3.0) May June July? [laughs] When do you want to go?
?: Er May
PL: Yeah okay
?: May, June
PL: Okay May it is (5.0) and here we have the places you can go to, Malta, Tunisia, Costa Del Sol, Lanzarote, Fuerte Ventura. And these are the costs
?: That’s good [laughter]
PL: Do you want to look at one?
?: Where shall we go? (2.0)
PL: Any ideas?  
?: Anywhere
PL: There’s more  
?:   Oh crikey
PL: Cyprus, Tenerife, Morocco, Portugal, Grand Panama, shall we look at that?
?: Morocco
PL: Morocco, okay. (7.0) Description of holiday ooh a picture  
?:   There it is [laughter]
?: (…) [laughter]
?: Yeah, can we book it?
PL: See if we can expand the picture, no we can’t.  Sometimes you can expand them.  Where do we book it?
?: What, how many, how many nights is it?
PL: Oh I don’t know
?: (…)
?: Mm (3.0)
?: It doesn’t tell you how long it’s for does it?
?: No
PL: No
?: Nor if it’s half-board or full board, or room only
PL: That’s true.  Tells you what a nice place it is though
?: Yeah [laughs]
? There’s all about Morocco
PL: So that’s that, I mean that’s what you can do, and then you can book that one over the Internet if you want to, that’s (…)
? That where it says talk to us what is that then, and how does that work?
PL: Oh right you can e-mail them
?: Oh
?: Do you need to click on where it says more info on the little picture for more information?
PL: Yes probably about that, so here we are, you can talk to them, give them feedback on the service, ask them questions about things, (3.0) where to telephone, what you want to talk to them about, and then you can send a message to them, give them comments on whatever (.) alright (20.0)
Computer: Leaving CompuServe
PL: Bye (2.0) alright  now here’s the Tesco shopping program (8.0) okay, who else wants a go? Someone else have a go? Come on (.)
? You’re next [laughter] (…)
? It’s you that said that you want to do me shopping for me [laughter] (…) vegetables
? Well what do you want me to do?
?: Just do what you want
PL: You see what you can do on this is choose items, search for items that are in store. It’s like being in a Tesco store but on you know, on this
? : So you just click on an item then?
PL: Yeah, whichever you want
?: How do you click on it?
PL: So bakery, that’s, oh you’ve done it  
?:   By pressing that?
PL: Ooh, went somewhere else then, take you back to that, okay so you’ve clicked on bakery and they’re all the bakery items now you can search up and down them until you find one that you want
?: Um and where do I get, do I have to click on it to get a price do I?
PL: Oh yeah. These are categories of things though rather than single items so click on one of them yeah
?: Bagels (…) standard
PL: That’s the only one they’re got
?: Ooh [laughter]
PL: What, brown bagels?
?: (…) oh it’s sliced isn’t it?
?: (…)
?: Loads of bagels though, at the top (…) (1.0)
PL: Oh lots of bagels
?: Oh yeah
? Yeah and pitta bread
?: (…) oh yeah
PL: [laughs] They’re not all bagels are they
?: They’re not are they?
? No they’re not
?: No
?: Cinnamon and raisin
PL: French butter brioche rolls
? : Seventy five oh
PL: Well, now if you want to buy those, double click on it  
? I think Asda’s cheaper [laughter]
? Double click on that do I?
PL: Double click on that yeah
?: Do you want me to double click on it
PL: Yeah go on.  Did you get it?
?: I think you moved
PL: Yeah, you (…)
?:  Click it again
? Where abouts, there?
PL: No, in the, where it’s got the thing itself
? Where we’re going  
PL:   No
?: What we’re going (…)  
?:   Where the writing is
PL: Yeah, that’s it
?: And it’s double click (.)
?: It says click once, then double click yeah?
PL: Yeah, click again, get it blue
? : Get it blue?
?: Click it once
PL: Click it once it goes blue
?: It won’t, the arrow won’t point to it [laughter]
PL: That’s it, you got it.  Now double click.  There you are. Your four cinnamon raisins are now added to your, they’ve put it in your basket in other words
?: You don’t want them either did you, you wanted onion ones [laughter]
?: No, I’d rather have cinnamon and raisin ones I think [laughter]
PL: Go to check list
?: Um where’s check oh there
PL: That’s it.  Now this is your shopping list that you’ve already got and it’s now added it to it  
?:   Somebody’s been following you round [laughter]
PL: All the items
?: Baby syrup [laughter] hundred and twenty two pound [laughs]
PL: Yeah well we’re just getting into it
?: Yeah it’s (…)  
?:   You have to pay it by the way [laughter]
?: (…) whip round
?: We’ll have a whip round yeah
PL: And then, so then you can delete items here so if you don’t want the baby syrup thing you can delete it, here we are delete, are you sure you want to delete Cow and Gate [laughter] yes, get rid of it, and there’s your bagels still on your list and you can change the quantities, so here we’ve got one for example, bagels, but you really like bagels so we get three of them and it puts three in (…)  
?:   I can imagine a lot of people using this
?: Yeah I can yeah
?: (…) end of thing saying ‘oof crikey, that’s more than I thought it were going to be’ [laughs]
? You don’t buy anything you don’t really
?: That’s true, you’re not tempted are you
?: But it’s actually seeing things that tempt you I think
PL: Mm, you’re not in the supermarket that’s right
? So if I want to go further down do I just click on that do I
PL: Yeah, yeah. (1.0) And if you want to look for some more things you go back to search 
?: Doing it this way then does it automatically go to a local Tesco’s do you have to? 
PL: Yeah well while we’re doing the searching we’re not on-line, we’re not connected to the Internet
? Oh right
PL: But when you’ve got your list all ready you can send it
?: To wherever you want 
PL: To order, and what it does is, it goes to your local store, it’s sent to your local store and deliver
?: And then presumably they’ll charge you for delivery 
PL: They charge a fiver at the moment (…) Tesco’s
?: Is that what it is five pounds?
PL: Yeah
? That’s not bad actually ‘cause for what you’d save by not going
? Paying for petrol to go there as well 
?: Especially if you don’t take your kids and husband, it’s a lot cheaper [laughter] (.)
PL: And it’s got whatever your local store is, it’s got all the products that are sold in that store up there 
?: It’s not sort of a universal thing then?
PL: No, it’s tied to the, your local store and you can update the list of products every month, you er connect up and they down load the list 
?: Do they have the special offers on there that they have at the store then?
PL: No they don’t 
? No you just (…)
PL: But you can enquire on-line, you can do a thing called enquire on-line, so you get your list together, you go on-line and you enquire and then it tells you about some of the special offers 
?: (…) it’s worth it
?: So this what we’re looking at the moment this is on the hard drive is it?
PL: Yeah 
?: We’re not on , we’re not searching through  
PL: We’re not on-line now, no  
?:   Oh right
PL: So that means you’re not paying for the telephone  
?   So you’re not paying for your telephone line, so you can search round, find out what you want, get your shopping list and then down load it, and it takes you a hell of a long  
PL: So it takes just a few seconds to, to, to place the order
?: So it probably costs you 10p on your phone
PL: Yeah probably yeah, okay 
?: Very interesting
?: I thought you said it were difficult [laughter]
PL: Are you getting in to it?
?: Playing it like an expert (.)
PL: Alright
? It’s because you’re spending money you see [laughter] (…)
?: (…) Tesco [laughter]
?: Can you do shares on there then as well (…)?
PL: Yes you can, there are some er, some er banks for example are on there now and you can use their share shops through that.  (…) There’s an enormous range of products and services that you can now join in. So what do you think? What are your thoughts about it?
?: Some of the things you’d use, and some of them you wouldn’t, it’s like you say, (…) and things like that
PL: Mm
?: I think things that you’d, that are home shopping anyway would work well on it
PL: Right
?: Mm
?: I mean you wouldn’t want to sort of like browse round Marks and Spencer’s site and buy a jumper and, because it’s not the reason you go to Marks and Spencer’s
?: Would it show you what the clothes look like, would they have little pictures or anything or would it just be a description of what it, what it is?
PL: Well, some of the sites have sort of descriptions of some of the products like Interflora gives you a description, gives you a picture of the bouquet that you can order, er others just give you lists like the Tesco’s there, which has got a list, so that’s something that at this stage they’re still developing. But in the end I think they will have sort of pictures of the products yeah (2.0)
?: I can see it has its applications hasn’t it
?: Would the item that it showed you, would it, would you get exactly that
PL: Well it would depend how often you could up date the information,
?: Yeah
PL: Or if you’re going on-line to find the information then it would be the current (…)
?: I think some of the things like the holiday thing is just too complicated, I don’t think you’d, I don’t think you’d use it
PL: What the site itself?
?: Yeah
?: It’s like a big thing isn’t it, booking your holiday, and I suppose doing it on there it’s like you’re not really going in to it in the same way  
?:   (…)
?: When you think how long you actually sit there in the travel agent, discussing holidays and um you know getting it finely tuned and finely honed to what you want would you be able to do that on there?
?: I think you would if you knew how to do it
?: If you were quite, yeah
?: Yeah (…)
?: I wouldn’t feel confident that I knew where I was going on there
?: Mm
PL: Right
?: I mean it’d be a good idea to get the ideas and the deals that they’ve got and then you could then go into the shop couldn’t you and say I’ve found this  
?:   Yeah
?: Mm
?: And then you could do all that sort of thing
PL: Right
?: Well it said on there  
?:   You’d save time then
?: When it said about talking to them, you can (…) you know by telephone
PL: Yeah
?: So  
PL:   Or go along to the shop
?: Scan through it, see what there is and then ring them up and, more information  
PL:   So you can see for some things that you’d use it as a way of sort of finding out about things before but then you’d still go to the company, to the shop, or, to actually discuss it (…) (.) what about um, how do you see this sort of er developing this kind of service? Do you think its going to take off?
?: Oh I think it will, yeah
?: I do I think probably like the younger people as they get older they’re, they’re growing with it rather than the older generation trying to sort of get them to use it I don’t think they would no, but certainly the younger ones (…)
?: Mm
?: I don’t think it’ll, it’ll not replace shopping will it, just supplement it.  I mean you only have to look at Meadowhall on a Saturday and a Sunday
?: (…) [laughter]
PL: Sorry what was  
?:   There’s too many people get too much pleasure out of shopping [laughter]
?: Oh yeah
PL: Don’t you think they can get pleasure out of, you seem to be getting into it
?: [laughs] Oh yeah, yeah
?: But its not the same is it?
?: No, no, no it’s not
PL: What’s  
?:   Its not like going round Marks and Spencer’s and going like that to the material [laughter]
?: No, no
?: It’s a day out isn’t it?
?: Yeah and as I say, you can’t go and have your lunch can you, it’s not the same going to kitchen,  [laughter] have your lunch in the kitchen and come back, it’s just no the same is it [laughs]
?: I think the novelty of it’ll just soon wear off (…)
?: Yeah, it’s time consuming aswell because its obviously going to take time to get to the standard that you’re at where you, you know, quite capable of using it
PL: Oh it’s not too difficult, I think you’d soon get into it
?: But a lot of people would be, would think, like you
?: Yeah  
?:   (…) reaction is ‘oh no I can’t do that, so you never sort of try it and really you, you’ve tried it so you know it probably isn’t too difficult but a lot of people won’t take that first step will they
?: Have you ever used it to buy anything?
PL: I have yes personally (.) what about this issue of the security? (.) It warned us didn’t it about security on the site
?: What was it saying on that warning?
PL: Well it’s saying that the information that we’re sending over is I mean you know going down the telephone line so they can’t necessarily guarantee the security of it
?: That’d put me off a bit
A: It’d put you off to the extent up to the point of entering your credit card number in wouldn’t it?
?: Yeah
A: I mean if your just, if you’re using it like to look through the Autotrader or look through the free ad magazine it’s very useful for that because I mean you can trawl for hours looking through those but if you know what you’re looking for you can think oh I’ll look at a selection of those and I’ll look at a selection of those and I wonder if they’ve got one of those in and it just find it automatically without you having to pore through these things, and perhaps like Kays catalogue anything home shopping orientated, I think it’s a, I think it’s a winner (.)
PL: Right so if you’ve got a lot of material to search through, then, then, then it’s powerful thing.  Well one thing that, one development that’s beginning to happen is that er people using store cards, loyalty cards and the credit cards and so on there’s a lot of information about us held on computers now, and they’re going to be able link that up with what they might want to advertise and then  when you go on-line they’ll say ‘oh yeah that person likes this kind of thing and then they can send you the information  
A: Junk mail [laughter]
?: More junk mail
PL: Well not necessarily junk mail 
?: Find out when your car insurance is due and you get about fifty people ringing you [laughter] get all these, you’ll never going to even get to the website will you because you’ll be fighting your way through all these  
PL: That’s right now you’ll get, you’ll get renew your car insurance with us, or they’ll know how much you pay and they’ll calculate (…) what you’re premium would  
?: Do you realise that it would save you ten pounds on your last premium
?: Yeah 
?: People that are house bound would use something like that
?: Oh yeah
?: Do you?
?: Probably wonder how they ever lived without it
PL: Right
?: Because you’re not having to depend on other people are you, you can do it all yourself (2.0)
PL: And what do you think the, what would prevent people from using it at the moment, are there any reasons why people don’t use it? 
?: Well thinking that it’s more difficult than it is
PL: Mm
?: If you’ve not, if you’ve not got a computer you just haven’t got that facility have you 
?: Cost
?: The cost
?: The cost to me
PL: But we know they’ll cost the computers?
A: Its still going to be a touch isn’t it?
PL: Relatively, but they’re getting cheaper all the time
?: They’re coming down a lot aren’t they?
?: Yeah but if you’re buying something like that, you’re know what are you looking at, a grand and a half, two grand, it’s not the type of thing  you can  
PL:   But you wouldn’t necessarily buy that one
?: A family wouldn’t buy that one
PL: No
?: But you’d buy you’d think oh I want to get (…) something reasonable and you know Dixons’ll sell it you at some phenomenal price [laughs] (.)
PL: Okay
?: Then they’d be on website wouldn’t they, saying ‘do you realise you that there’s a new one come out, [laughter] twice as powerful [laughter] four times as quick’?
?: And you’ve just bought this one
?: That’s right [laughter] we’ll take your other one in part exchange and give you fifty quid against it [laughter]
PL: Don’t you think that could be a valuable thing in a way, sort of you getting someone marketing directly to you, knowing what your needs are, knowing what you’ve bought
?: Anticipating what you need though
PL: Anticipating what your needs are
?: Like most of the people who anticipate what you need are home insurance and double glazing and (.) (…)
PL: But what about reputable firms I mean you all went to the Marks and Spencer’s site.  I mean they’re going to get into this aren’t they? Would it be okay if they were Marks and Spenser’s and they noticed you bought a red jumper two years ago and it’s time you replaced it [laughter]
?: I’d find it amazing
?: Yeah when you came in they would notice there was a hole in there or [laughter]
?: (…) bring it back two years ago [laughter] and never got round to it [laughter]
?: That’s right, yeah they realised you left the shop without paying [laughter]
?: It’s a bit Big Brother isn’t it?
PL: Well is it? I mean is it, is it Big Brotherish do you think?
?: I think you want to go and look don’t you, you don’t want to go and have things thrust upon you (2.0)
PL: Okay?
LM: Mm
PL: Okay, there’s another kind of site that I want to show you now if I can get back on again, ah there it is (8.0)
Computer: Welcome to CompuServe
PL: So who do you think, who do you think is actually using this service now, do you think anyone’s using it if so what kind of people are they? (3.0)
?: It’s a mixture (…)  
?:   It’s anoraks isn’t it
?: Yeah [laughter]
PL: How do you mean anoraks? 
?: Well stuck in their bedroom, tinkering away [laughter] and (…) into websites
PL: What buying anoraks?
?: Buying more anoraks yeah, yeah. It’s sort of like trainspotting isn’t it? Surfing the Net
?: You can imagine somebody with a lot of time on their hands (…)
?: I don’t know, no [laughter] (…) looking for
?: Billy no mate [laughter] 
PL: I’ve got no dial tone, (1.0) I’ll try again (3.0) I bet er she’s on the phone
?: Oh yeah it rang didn’t it?
?: Did it?
PL: Did it, oh that’s what it is then, better not do this now.  I’ll tell you about the other  
?:   You can cut in can’t you?
PL: No you  
?:   To listen, that’s horrible [laughter]
PL: I wish we could
?: (…) just connect and cut in [laughter]
PL: (…) tell you, show you next were sort of er for example there’s a site, there are sites that are to do with protesting about consumers, er that’s like about outlets like there’s MacDonald’s there’s an anti-MacDonald’s site. It has information on it like about the campaigns that are being run against MacDonald’s, and how you can set up a local campaign, what letters to write to who and so on and so forth if you want to protest about MacDonalds, I mean you may not want to, but it’s that sort of information.  Do you that’s, what do you think about that? (3.0)
?: I suppose it’s good if you want to do something like that
?: I don’t think you’re going to get many taking that up
?: I mean I suppose you know it’s there for, at the end of the day the Internet’s just there as a tool for communicating isn’t it so you can use it to communicate about anything, (.) anti-consumerism campaign, you’re back to your anoraks again aren’t you?
PL: Well what about um okay not, not protesters certainly but information so for example say a company was set up that would monitor all the prices in all the supermarkets for you, so you, you know, so you could send your list, so instead of sending it to Tesco’s you could send it to them, they would check it out against the other supermarkets who by then are all on-line and say well look you get the cheapest deal if you send this order to Safeway or  
?:   That would be good
?: Yeah
PL: That would be okay?
?: Mm
?: I can’t imagine it being much different, I mean if they say  
PL:   [laughs] The supermarkets would all charge similar prices
?: Well yeah, they do don’t they, you might save on a can of beans but you’d pay more on coffee. You know I think that  
?:   They’re probably going to come back and say  
?:   You could do that but yeah  
?: Come back and say you know, you know, if you go to Asda which is sort of like other, you know it’s going to take you all this time and you get to Asda and (…) ordering you’re going to save about thirty-eight pence  
?:   It’s not going to pay your mortgage off is it [laughter]
?: If there were sites like that, you had to pay your mortgage off in five years[laughter] but that’s (…)  
PL: But that’s, that’s not a bad idea, I mean, we’re all, well not all of us, but people are quite er sort of er conservative really about their mortgages, they don’t want to change them too often, but in fact you can change them and there are often deals out there I mean you could find out about a deal, change your mortgage just by going on-line  
?:   Mm
PL: Check what you’re paying against what you could pay
?: Mm, that’s (…)
?: Again you’re using the same sort of function though aren’t you, you’re sifting through a lot of information in a short space of time, just like you’re looking through Autotrader for a Golf GTI you’d have to trawl all the way round town and pick all the leaflets up and have meetings with the mortgage advisor
PL: Yeah, yeah
?:  So for something like that if it’s bang up to date as well
PL: Right
?: Um, but the other thing you’ll miss is sort of inside. I’ve just changed my mortgage I was going to change it before but I found out from the Abbey National that they are getting rid of all the charges in two weeks time
PL: Mm, mm
?: Somebody in the (…) told me so I thought oh yeah, I’ll have a bit of this, go for that and er you miss that bit, personal insight
PL: But you see you could um I was saying about them pushing information to you, that information could be circulated to everyone who’s on-line, so you’d know that there was   
?:   Yeah, but it’s something that, I shouldn’t really tell you this but [laughter] 
PL: Oh right sort of classified information
?: Don’t er don’t take it out just yet, wait till  
PL:   It’s the sort of information that does circulate on the Internet though.  Alright I mean okay, from, from the way you’re talking about this I’m feeling you’re saying that this is like an extension of shopping as it is now rather, you don’t see it as the new universal shopping
?: No (2.0)
PL: Okay (.) is there anything else (…)? 
?: Mm (…)
PL: Okay so I was saying, I was saying who do you think is using it, we got into something else there, do you think anyone’s using it at all?
?: I think people, this, this lady said here people that are house bound or maybe not house bound but find it more difficult to go out and spend the time shopping
?: I suppose people with busy lives aswell who don’t haven’t got time
?: Yeah
?: That’s what I was thinking yeah  
?:   To spend time 
?: Particularly if their business provides them with something like this
?: Well yeah
?: Mm
?: And if they have the same sort of shopping, if it was food every week you could just have it, you wouldn’t have to spend the time going to a  
?:   I see a lot of  busy women using that sort of thing 
?: Mm (4.0)
PL: Right  
?:   Would it be possible to use something like that if you were travelling a long distance, say by train or something like that?
PL: If you had a mobile phone
?: Mm
PL: You could go on-line, it’d be quite an expensive way to do it because of the cost of the phone call (…)
?: But as you say, if you were using Tesco’s or something like that where it was loaded on to your hard disk, you’re transferring it in seconds aren’t you?
LM: I was going to say (…) mobile phones is like free local calls at the weekend so you’re away aren’t you. Travelling on a Saturday you know (…) mobile phone
PL: I might do that [laughter]
?: He’ll be on it all weekend [laughter] Orange are going to go mad aren’t they [laughter] it’s like all the people in London that were using them as er baby monitors [laughter]
?: Never [laughter]
?: Yes, yeah, yeah two mobile phones you leave one turned on free calls at the weekend, take it with you. [laughter] 
PL: Yes
?: I shouldn’t have mentioned that [laughter]
?: Got it on tape now [laughter]
?: They don’t know who I am though [laughs]
PL: That’s true, okay um so what do you think, do you think they’re, there’ll be any benefits to consumers from, from this? Do you think it’ll have any benefits for us?
?: I think it’ll give you more choice or it’ll make the choices more available 
?: Perhaps save you time as well, you’re not spending the time, if you know that you want something specific or you know exactly what you want and you know you can go there, you’ve not got to spend all day searching.
?: It’s comparing things as well isn’t it, you want something you can, particularly something that there’s five or six different makes or models or something, you can sort of find out what they are and how much they are quite easily without having to visit sort of a shop that side of town, or the shop that side of town you know  
?:   And then you forget where one, a good one was [laughter]
PL: Yeah (2.0)
?: Then you have to go back to the shop you first went to and it’s there in front of you isn’t it?
?: Then you’ve spent all day 
?: Yeah
PL: What about in terms of prices, do you think it’ll increase competition or bring prices down in any way?
?: There’s some kind of facility where you can put a certain object in and they can tell you the best, where the best price (…)  
PL:   Without yeah
?: So something like that would be useful
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: My husband’s a plumber and he has to um, [coughs] I mean he goes all, he travels miles looking for the er cheapest price for copper pipe and copper fittings you know various um (.) bathroom suites and whatever I mean it’d be handy for him if he could like um tap into Coin and Barrett’s in the morning and find out what the prices of this was and  
?:   He could probably order it over the thing
?: Yeah
?: So he’d not have to stand there all day (…) sort of waiting to be (…)  
?:   Or he’d not have to go from one end of S, straight through the centre of S to the other side, (.) so I mean er it’d benefit him
PL: Mm
?: It would
PL: Mm, some people are saying that if enough people were to use it like the supermarket shopping, it would just, it would remove the congestions in the supermarket and the little trips that people are making
?: A lot of the supermarket shopping you want, you know you don’t pick first lettuce that you see do you, you don’t pick the first tomato you see, you always wonder you think, you know all the ones that people don’t pick they’ll be saying ‘right we’ll get all these out to the home shopping people, they’ll not send them back, so you’re not, you know you’ve not got the, I mean I know the quality’s a lot better than it used to be but you’re not getting the sort of the choice aspect of the fresh produce
?: Well perhaps they’ve got to give you a guarantee or something that it’s going be fresh or it’s going to be of a certain quality
?: But then like he says, you’re not going to send it back if you get a few tomatoes that are [laughs]  
?:   Well they’re not 
?: You know if you get five good ones and one bad one you think oh well  
?:   Yeah again [laughs]
?: I’d hate that, hate it
?: Yeah, yeah, (…) [laughter]
?: You’d just never use the service again would you?
PL: In fact what Tesco do is they put people in the store who they call expert shoppers who shop on your behalf and you can instruct them what to do so for example in substitution so if they haven’t exactly got the one you want, like you ask for this kind of apples they’ll buy one  
?:   If you want you’re tomatoes a bit green or something
PL: Yeah right, no you can’t instruct them quite to that extent
?: Can’t you?
PL: No just generally like you can say allow a substitute or not 
?: Oh right 
PL: So you can say ‘no don’t substitute, just get what I’ve ordered and if it’s not there leave it’, or ‘have a look’, but they’re, they’re so it’s and it’s their job to try and get you the best quality that they can that’s their job, so they go round the store just like any shopper would and they find the avacado’s that are almost ripe and they find the tomatoes that are not blemished and so  
?:   Mm it’s been well thought out hasn’t it? [laughs]
PL: Sorry?
?: It’s all been well thought out
PL: Yeah, yeah. (.) Because the services behind, around it are as important as being able to go on-  line, and like as you were saying if it weren’t delivered on time  
?:  Well you just wouldn’t use it then would you?
PL: You wouldn’t use the service, no (3.0) yeah (.) okay, any other observations about it? (6.0)
?: I presume, what we (.) we brought up I don’t know perhaps fifteen sites on there are they just what you loaded in from?  
PL:   Yeah 
?: I mean obviously there’s, there are hundreds more out there aren’t there, this is just a sample
PL: Yeah, yeah, like Autotrader is on there
?: That’s right, yeah
PL: (…)
?: Yeah (…) a friend of mine was using it the other day (5.0)
LM: A lot of the service providers now automatically have a kind of commerce section in there (…) there’s definitely a risk on (…) sort of British phase (…) offer shopping facilities over the Net and things like that (5.0)
PL: Okay, well thanks a lot, that’s great
?: Thank you
PL: Thank you
? : Interesting wasn’t it		


Focus Group 13
L, 26.6.98
ABC1 Women


LM: I wonder if we could just start off, if everybody can say their name, introduce themselves, [coughing] um and maybe say a little bit about what kind of um use you have made of computers, whether you use the Internet or do you use computers at work, that sort of thing or in the home. Do you want to start?
E: Start with me [laughs] right so my name’s E, er I work for Social Services um  I have three grown-up children, I’m currently living by myself.  At the moment I don’t have anything much to do with computers, although we do have one in the room where I work, my office. We’ve actually been um had my room measured to put more computers in  
LM:   Right
E: You know, for our use, so at the moment um I don’t really know too much about computers
LM: But you’ll be using them at work?
E: We will be, yeah, yeah because Social Services are at last [laughter] getting technology in [laughter]
LM: Right
E: It took them a long time, but, you know, we will be using them
LM: Okay, great
N: Hi, my name’s N, I work for R er use computers daily but have not actually accessed the Internet or used the Internet at all um live at home still with my Mum that’s it really
LM: Okay, so what sort of stuff do you use at work? What sort of things (…)?
N: Windows, Lotus um we’ve got internal systems like um you know um, you can send mail, internal mail through which is a bit like the Internet I think where you can send messages and things like that. Um, we’ve got a payroll system called Quest 2000, um, but I don’t know whether they’re internal packages, or whether they’re external companies, I’m not sure
LM: Okay
J: My name’s J um I live at home with my parents, I work for the city council and I use computers now and again I actually work on the counter taking all the money so we use computers but it’s not like the Internet or anything like that
LM: Right
J: It’s just using the basic stuff
LM: Okay, okay
D: My name’s D and I work for the University and we use a computer.  I’ve used the Internet but only just really for er looking around on it, not for anything um specific. I use it er for spreadsheets and databases um and just general things on the computer
LM: Uhuh, okay
I: My name’s I. I’ve got two grown-up children and I work for a chiropracter who keeps threatening to buy a computer [laughter] so I’ve been on two computer courses but I’m not really er I don’t think I can (…) [laughter]
LM: Okay
I: I’m, my daughters have used the Internet
LM: Right
I: With friends, we haven’t got one but (…) they’d like one (.) but they’ll have to wait [laughter]
LM: Okay
C: Er my name’s C. I’ve got three grown-up children but they refuse to leave home [laughter] um my children and my husband are very into computers we’ve got er one at home that J’s got plugged into work and faxes and links and stuff and there’s always something going on, but up to now I’ve cleverly avoided it all and I don’t want to know anything about them [laughter] because if you do a job once it becomes yours [laughter] um I’m a nursery nurse, I do use a computer at work for the children with special needs but it’s very basic stuff and for them to access games and things really, not for me [laughs]
LM: Okay(.) um, so have any of you heard anything about shopping on the Internet?
?: (…)
?: I haven’t
D: I’ve heard about it but I’ve never used it
LM: Okay so what have people heard, if you haven’t  
?:   (…) to see you can basically buy anything you want really
LM: Mm
?: It’s twenty-four hours, it’s just like the telesales on the telly really isn’t it it’s the same, it’s the same sort of idea, I’ve heard that you can get the, the happy pills everyone’s talking about at the moment off the Internet [laughter]
LM: Oh right
?: I don’t know if it’s true [laughs]
LM: Has anyone else heard anything (…)?
?: No (.)
LM: Okay, and can you tell me where you, where you sort of heard about it, bits you’ve seen on TV or in magazines, where you’ve heard say getting Prozac over the Internet?
C: Erm I’ve heard my children discussing things and talking about it and things like that. You do read a lot about it, it in the papers, don’t you, and magazines, there’s an awful lot of literature around
LM: Mm, yeah
?: (…) 
?: No, no I don’t (.)
LM: Right
D: I don’t think I could spend the day on this [laughter] and to be honest, if I saw something advertised like that because I don’t have use of one I probably wouldn’t notice, or be interested, maybe, you know (.)
LM: And have any of you used um sort of other forms of telly shopping like you know QVC or watched it?
?: Yes (…) [laughter]
?: I think I’ve watched it, but just to watch it, but I’ve never used it
?: No I haven’t no
N: We have ordered some stuff on, I can’t remember what it was, some creams or something like that 
LM: Uhuh
?: And then, you just phone (…) credit card and then they give you (…) and then it comes through, (…) for an hour only once and now I can’t stand watching it so [laughter]
C: We ordered er, well my husband ordered one of these model cars once, about eighteen months ago and that became (…) because after that one order we just kept getting too much literature off them  
LM:   Right
C: It wasn’t true it turned into a nightmare so, we, we wouldn’t, wouldn’t use them again [laughs]
LM: Okay and what have you thought of it, I mean you’ve seen it on, does it appeal?
?: No
?: No
?: It doesn’t appeal to me, it wouldn’t appeal to me much I’d say
LM: And what about other sorts of more traditional forms of mail order, I mean do any of you kind of use catalogues regularly or do you buy, are there any things that you buy over the phone a lot?
N: Yeah, I (…) um Next Directory, I use that a lot
?: (…) some girls use that a lot
N: Yeah 
?: And that’s nice because it’s delivered, they tell you when they’re going to deliver that  
N:   Yeah
?: Don’t they?
?: It’s everything within a day or two aswell
?: Yeah, so they use that a lot
?: But you have to pay cash for that, don’t you? You don’t have any credit do you?
N: Yeah  
?:   You can
N: Oh can you? I didn’t realise
?: I get a statement through every month
?: Oh right
?: I thought you had to pay it all  
N:   No you can do  
?:   Oh right
N: If you use your card but I just get a statement through each month and then you can pay either for the month or if you just pay er each (…) interest they put on or
?: Yeah, yes, yes
C: I have got a catalogue, the Kay’s Catalogue, but if I do order anything it’s just because I haven’t got time to go to the shops or it’s convenient and I always pay for it straight away because I don’t like the interest, I don’t like that you know, weekly amount thing I just pay for what I get, that’s it really [laughs]
LM: Is that the same for you, it’s the sort of convenience or?
N: No, it’s just like if I’m sitting there with nothing to do I’ll order [laughter] (…)  
?:   (…) it’s like a girls bible, the catalogue[laughter]
?: Yeah (…)
D: I think it’s convenient because in the Next Catalogue they don’t have all the things in the shop, do they  
N:   No, that’s it
D: Or all the sizes, so  
N:   Yeah
D: They tell you if it’s there and obviously if it’s there then it’s there or the day after so
C: Don’t you have to pay for that, though, I object that initially, it’s about five pound
N: Yeah
?: For the catalogue
?: (…) catalogue
?: (…)
C: I think that’s a bloomin’ cheek [laughs]
N: Well I did at first, but I mean it is all (.) quality stuff isn’t it, I mean  
?:   Yeah
?: Yeah
?: So it’s all hung up and it’s not in a shitty little carrier bag or  
?:   That’s what you’re paying for
?: Yeah 
?: Yeah
?: Three pound
?: And you have to pay delivery as well, it’s two pound fifty
?: Well you’re joking aren’t you?
?: But that’s however much stuff (…)  
?: But it’s alright, I mean if you paid your bus fare to town and back  
?:   Yeah, that’s a point, that’s true
?: Yeah
?: I know so 
?: And you can just change, you ring up ‘this is no good’ or (…) order something else [laughter]
C: But I still think they should disguise that initial charge in a bit better way then, I mean I think to ask for money so you can look at their products is a bit, a little bit offensive really when
?: But you do that on the channel I suppose, you (…)
C: Yes
?: Yeah
?: (…) 
?: I think it’s because, I mean I, we’ve got I don’t know how many catalogues, that the girls never order out of, and that’s ‘cause they’re sent or they’ll ring up and see it advertised, I mean I’m  
?: (…)
?: Well if you pay for the Next one they know you’re going to use it
?: Perhaps yes
?: You’re not just going to (…) look through (…)
N: Yeah, I mean I’ve had mine for years and I suppose [coughs] it is yeah, they’ve got a bit of a cheek charging, and I think maybe now, because I’ve had mine for about [coughs] must be six or seven years, maybe I shouldn’t get charged now ‘cause I’ve you know been a customer (…)
?: You’ll have to suggest it [laughter]
N: But er  
?:   How often do they send them out?
N: Erm, twenty (…) so
?: Right, so it’s six pounds a year
N: Yeah
C: Well I got a letter the other day asking me whether I wanted to send money (…) money off and then they would send me one but (…) [laughter] it must be the time of year for catalogues coming round (2.0)
LM: Okay, so (.) does it, does the idea of being able to shop over the Internet appeal, or to use a computer to shop (.)
N: Not really, I like to see  
?:   I like to see (…)
?: I was going to say I like to window shop, you know actually touch and hold them up, and you know  
N:   What kind of shops is it?
?: (…) are we talking about clothing are we now, or anything?
C: If I could do my food shopping over the Internet that would be brilliant [laughter] I’d soon learn that [laughter]
?: Some women do it don’t they?
?: I don’t know
?: (…) yeah, I believe so yeah
?: Do they?
?: (…) if it is
?: (…)
LM: (…) just show you [laughter] (…) shopping (…). So yeah, what I thought I’d do is to let everybody have a look at some of the sites that we’ve found where you can shop on the Internet, and er, have a little play with them and see what you think (7.0) so first of all we’ll try and (.) get into the Internet (3.0)
[Computer: Welcome to CompuServe ]
LM: Nice friendly voice (17.0)  
PL: Was it dialling the number?
LM: Yeah (2.0)
PL: It’s just dialling up the er service. Um do you know about Internet, um how it works?
?: No
?: No, haven’t a clue
N: It goes through the telephone line, like a fax machine (…)
?: Oh right
?: (…)
LM: We’re using (…) phone line at the moment. That’s all we’re doing. That’s like a local phone call number, local number. You’ve got the Microsoft homepage, then ‘Start’ and let’s connect it (.)
?: Is it expensive to use the Internet do you know?
LM: Well, usually what you do is pay like a monthly subscription to a service provider like CompuServe or someone, there’s a whole range of them and then you pay for all the time you’re on there it’s a  local phone call rate so you know if you’re on-line for half an hour then you pay half an hour, the equivalent of a half hour local call on top of the kind of maybe five to ten pounds a month (…) subscription charge
?: My friends make their boys get a separate phone line  
?:   I think you’d have to
?: Because it was just costing them far too much ‘cause whenever  
?:   Would they have to pay for it?
?: Pardon?
?: Would they have to pay for it then?
?: Yeah (…) got a different line (…)
?: (…) on-line, so that only girls can get into it [laughter]
?: Yeah, that’s the thing
LM: Right, so we’ve got a few sites here that we’ve had a look at . Um, I don’t know,  Barclay Square is quite a popular one that’s like a mall, it’s like a virtual mall with some shops on it, um there’s CD Now, which is an American CD company, um there’s the Interflora home page, where you can order flowers on-line, er Legal and General, um (.) and we’ve got Which On-Line, which is kind of like the Which Magazine where you can browse there, and Amazon, which is an American bookshop, one of the biggest (…) that’s on the Net, so what do you fancy and who’s going to have a go more to the point? [laughter]
?: Go on, you choose
?: I don’t mind [laughter]
LM: If you can get somewhere where it’s easy for you to do it where everyone can see it, and now if you use the button to move up and down, and then the one on the left will (3.0) right so we’ve chosen the Tesco one, we’ve also got some of the Tesco’s stuff on the, loaded onto the computer. What’s the difference with the website, Pete?  What can you look up on the website?
PL: Um, the website’s just like an information site about Tesco’s (…) you can actually shop at Tesco’s over the Internet as well, and we’ll show you that later (.) Are you getting there?
LM: Yeah
PL: All right
?: So for home shopper CD do you just go onto that and click on it?
LM: Can you do that from here?
?: I could do that first I suppose.
LM: I think that might be too (…) order the home shoppers
?: Is it ?
PL: (…)(11.0)
LM: Okay, so it’s kind of like (.) if you want to get hold of a copy, we’ve already got one
?: Right [laughter] 
LM: Why don’t, if you go up to favourites again, and choose another one, because we’ve not got  
PL:   What do you think of the layout of what you’re getting as you go?
LM: Click on that one, and maybe try, I don’t know, Amazon which is a bookshop or it’s a CD shop (…)
J: Is this British? Or is it?
LM: Yeah, the Barclay Square’s a British based one
J: Is it (7.0)
LM: Okay, there’s a few, (…) (12.0) okay, so what does it say?
J: It says just click on whichever (.) one you want to know about (5.0) we’re at the top (3.0)
LM: Which is that one?
J: The shops. 
LM: Right (1.0)
?: Does it go through each one, does it?
LM: Er, I think, yeah, I think if you scroll down here, that should list them, there’s Argos there, you should be somewhere below
N: Right (.)
LM: So what do you reckon, what do you, which one do you want to have a look at? (13.0)
PL: Which one is this?
N: The bookshop, um (…)
PL: Oh right, I haven’t seen this one. (9.0) Click in this little symbol here, it’ll make it cover the screen. Oh, sorry
N: Oh sorry
PL: That’s all right
N: What one, the little line?
PL: The one in the middle, oh here we go, it’s all here (2.0) move back (4.0)
?: That’s probably what (…) not knowing where you are with it
?: Mm
?: Mm
?: (…) but you can go in and out of it and learn
C: And all that sort of thing, it’s interesting isn’t it?  
N:   I find it interesting, but
?: (…)
?: You’d have to know what you was looking for wouldn’t you to go in and have  
?:   (…) you could just like press this and this [laughter] (…)
PL: Mmm
?: Just to look at it and, as you say it’s interesting?
?: Yeah
C: If you became sophisticated enough though, you could just (…) more or less saying ‘you got what you wanted by following your pattern of shopping’ now (…)  
?:   [laughter]Yeah
C: (…) because I reckon we all buy the same things roughly every two or three weeks (…)
?: Yeah, yeah
C: I’d quite like that, but then, thing is then they could give me an (…), I’d press it and still go ‘I hate shopping’ [laughter] (…)
LM: Well, it might be getting on that way, you might be in luck
?: Does somebody else want a  
?:   (…) a while ago, I don’t know if it was Tesco’s or Sainsbury’s 
?: Mm, you just, it’ll have started off your telephone and your order through or something (…)
?: (…)
?: And you just went and collected it
?: (…) [laughter] yeah
LM: Yeah, I mean what do you, what do the rest of you think about um, say, supermarkets kind of gathering information about what you buy?
D: Do you mean, billeting an order through to them? Ordering, like  
LM: Mmm, just generally, you know, for example, you know, they’d know your tastes by making a record of all the things you buy every time you go to Sainsbury’s, they can identify you, what you bought. Would that be something that would be useful, for them? For you?
?: It’d be quick, quicker I suppose
?:  Mmm quicker
?: Speed 
?: If you ordered the same thing or similar thing (…) you’d start (.) getting bored with them and might want something different
?: Yeah
N: But basics like toilet rolls and powder and that (…) different tastes don’t you (…) some people will want salads and
PL: So they could analyse what you buy and say ‘Oh right, that’s interesting’, they can see what you don’t buy  
?:   (…) about every couple of weeks
PL: Yeah, they can suggest things
?: (…)
C: Actually Sainsbury’s did like a survey a few months ago (…) that you wanted, so every time you go now this is what most people ask for
LM: Oh yeah, like the sort of top hundred products?
?: Yeah
?: That’s right
?: (…)
LM: Yeah (2.0) okay shall we try another site (.) or we can try and do something with this one?
PL: Shall I have a go at this?
?: You can actually book your holidays now on the Internet
PL: Oh yes
?: (…)
LM: Thomas Cook might be on, I’m not sure
?: That would be interesting
?: (…) your actual holiday rather that just your tickets
PL: Where is it?
LM: Go back to Barclay Square, actually. It’s likely to have something
PL: Mm
LM: I know you can definitely search for information about flights, like one of these websites is you know, you can put in when you want to go, and when and, how much you want to spend  
N:   But you can’t, can you actually book a package holiday from them, or do you still have to go?
LM: I don’t know, we’ve never got that far on this one, I think   ?:   My auntie’s going to um New York and she’s booked her flight but I just heard her conversation saying that she’s looking for accommodation on the Internet, you know apartments, because (…) 
N: (…) friends going to Africa next week, and they found out the resort and everything and they went to the Internet to have a look, and they’ve got all these letters that everybody had sent in on the Internet telling them about the resort and what the hotel was like, but (…)
?: Oh that’s good isnt’ it?
PL: Okay, well here’s Thomas Cook’s, do you want to check this out? (3.0) Who else is going to have a go? (…)?
?: No, I don’t (…) [laughter] (…) got nervous of it [laughter]
?: (…)
?: I can never get the mouse to behave, (…) nervous of it
PL: Oh come on it’s not too bad. He’s very friendly [laughter]
?: I’m sure he is
PL: Come on, have a go
?: No, not yet [laughter] 
PL: All right, so this is Thomas Cook’s site
?: Go on
PL: Looks like I’m going to do it. So these are the different things we can do, you can look for holidays, flights  
?:   (…) 
?: Yes
PL: Here, this flashing thing is late deals, shall we try that?
?: Late deals, yes
PL: So there’s sort  
?:   (…) same what’s on Teletext (…)?
C: Is it, yeah? 
PL: Yeah
C: So, I presume you have to have a credit card
LM: Yes 
?: You’d have to for everything I presume
PL: Switch card, I suppose
?: Most of them you do, yeah (…)
PL: Or a debit card (.) Right, so, ah, so, now we can put in things, so ‘When’, any time, yeah, ‘Where’, anywhere? 
?: Anywhere
?: Anywhere [laughter]
?: Cyprus
?: How much?
?: See if there are any late deals for (…)
?: Doesn’t matter [laughs]
?: (…)
PL: Well we can choose different places, where have we got? Canaries, Florida, Greek Islands, Spain, Turkey, oh, shall we leave it on ‘anywhere’? [laughter] How much? How much do you want to spend?  
J: Five hundred pounds
PL: Over five hundred  
?:   Oh cheaper
PL: Over five hundred  
?:   Cheaper
?: Because one year I’ll go mad if you’ve (…) me [laughter]
C: Do you think, is five hundred pounds cheap (…)? 
?: For how much holiday is that?
?: Two weeks 
PL: Let’s see what they’ve got
?: (…) [laughter]
?: Dirt cheap
?: They’ve got one for eighty-nine pounds going to Rhodes
PL: Really? 
?: How much?
?: Eighty-nine
PL: That’s pretty good
?: That’s brilliant
?: (…) it was five weeks before we flew
?: Mm
PL: Right, so here we go. So these are the offers that they’ve got that we can save.  We can go to Cyprus [laughter] 
?: Cyprus (…)
?: In my dreams
PL: Five hundred pounds for seven nights.(4.0) Er, Alicante (.)
?: I’ve just come back from there [laughter]
PL: Oh have you?
?: Was it good?
?: Yeah (…) so I just went for free
PL: Right, Grand Canary, Ibiza, so that’s, so then, shall we try and book one, see what happens? [laughter]
?: (…) [laughter]
?: I’ll go, you stay
PL: All right, let’s see Alicante, see what they say
?: Is this real or is it just you messing around on it? [laughter]
PL: No, we’re actually on-line now 
?: Oh [laughter] (.)
PL: Oh so  
D:   I could spend hours on that if I got used to it
N: (…) you know, you’re logged on there, do you use a code like a password or something you have to put through that you can be identified from or is it just any phone line that you can hook up to?
LM: We can use any phone line so that’s why we can do it from here, um, and there’s a password for Compu, no there isn’t a password for CompuServe at all, is there?
?: So it, maybe the phone number?
PL: No, because you can do it from any [coughs] any phone
J: How do they know that you’ve paid your subscription?
PL: Oh, CompuServe won’t let you log on. There is a CompuServe log on, so when we went to the Internet provider, they checked up that we’d paid our bill
?: (…) credentials
PL: Credentials yeah, but now we’ve gone through that and we now can go anywhere in the world, we’re at Thomas Cook’s site so they don’t check, once you’ve got through that gate
?: Right
PL: You can go anywhere you like
?: But do Thomas Cook know who’s on the line
PL: No
?: So they don’t know who we are
?: You could go all through this, you could (….) and say  
?: (…) paid the bill [laughter] 
?: Yes
?: Yeah, the bill yeah
?: He won’t say (…) will he?
?: Yeah
PL: Well then you have to give your credit card over, and they have to check, you know like when you, when you swipe it they can immediately check the number of the credit card to find out if you’ve got credit
C: I think (…)  
?:   (…) I’d be worried about losing it sort of getting halfway through something, really fancying the holiday and then it disappearing the way computers go down  
N:   (…) Teletext isn’t it, you see it advertised on Teletext and then by the time you get through it’s gone, isn’t it? (…)
?: It’s gone
?: I think (…) find it quite stressful really, anxious about it all
PL: Well you can see we can we’ve been on, I mean, it used to be more unreliable than now, but you can see we’ve been on for quite a while now, and it’s quite stable, now, really
?: Is this (…) or is this through BT? ‘Cause one of them isn’t is it?
PL: Well, it’s just going through whatever phone company they’re operating here, so  
?:   So children could go on those things on there that they can  
PL:   Yeah
?: Oh yeah
?: Yeah
PL: You could find anything but I can  
?:   I believe the BT ones are censored?
?: I don’t know  
PL:   Right
?: Ours goes through a Cable phone so I don’t know
PL: You can censor this, any Internet provider like this, this is CompuServe, you can make it so you can only use certain domains, and so you could stop your kids from ever using it. (.)  But that’s, they’re, sort of working on that now, it’s not 
?: Mm
PL: Been set up
?: I suppose once you’ve got your own computer where you can set your own password (…)
PL: That’s right. (.) I’d like to show you a different kind of site, but, oh here we are
(5.0) mm, don’t know what we can look at, Interflora’s quite (.)
LM: Yeah, that’s quite nice
PL: Because we can’t see the products yet  
?:   It’s as if you’re not spending money, do you know what I mean, isn’t it, it’s just like a game [laughter] you could really get into debt 
?: (…)
?: Yeah [laughter]
PL: So here’s, here’s Interflora (3.0)
C: That’s nice, that plant, I (…) [laughter] (…) to come and admire (…) [laughter]
PL: Yeah (.) mm, messages, shall we try that one? (8.0) Right, okay, so then they offer you a bouquet, just like that, go on loading and it will be bigger
?: Yeah
?: Yeah
LM: I think it’s just gone (…)
PL: Shall we try that? (.)You were saying about not being able to touch the stuff.  One way they’ll try and get around that is to present them visually like this
?: Yeah right
?: Yeah
PL: So you can get a fair idea of what it would look like (.) What’s this then? ‘Capable of conveying any message, this cheerful little posy combines beautiful pink mini gardera, is that how you say it, white chrysanthemums’   
?:   (…) somebody who was house bound
?: Yeah
?: (…)
?: Does it give you the price?
?: Twenty pounds
PL: That’s twenty pounds
?: (…) flowers, they’re not made up anyway, are they, Interflora you just look through the book and choose a posy, it’s just the same really
PL: Yeah. ’Buy now’, and there you are, this is what happens if you go to actually buy. You then have to fill out the message you want to send, your telephone number, day that you want to send it (.) yes, well I’m not going to go into that [laughter] (…) but you can see how you then go in and give your credit card details, there you go
C: (…) you have to put your own paper in to put your message in or to, you know
?: It’s only a short message
PL: Short message
?: (…)
PL: Yes, now let’s see, and you were asking about whether they know about you looking. There is a thing called er, they’re called cookies. When you visit a site they, the information about you and your visit to that site is stored on this computer, so then when you visit another site they can tell which other sites you’ve visited, and other information about you, by reading the information. So Interflora will have loaded down a bit of information onto this computer now saying ‘Ah, Pete visited Interflora, and looked at this bouquet’ and then when I go somewhere else they’ll know  
C: Do they share this information?
PL: That’s shared
C: They’ll share it yeah
PL: They can come and get, because it’s on, it’s kept stored actually on your own computer, although you don’t know it 
D: So they send you loads of rubbish through the post?
PL: They might, that might be (…)
?: So could they send you a message then, if you’ve got your own? 
PL: Well, they could, but they’re not doing that much yet
?: Mm, that would be annoying (…)
LM: Isn’t there a way of getting your computer to warn you about cookies?
PL: Yeah, well there’s Netscape, which is another Internet provider, are very worried about this, because people are getting concerned about this, because it’s information about them that could be accessed by other companies, and so they’re making it more visible, so you know if a cookie is being left, which is why they’re called cookies   
?:   What about your credit card details, isn’t that a bit dodgy?
PL: No that’s not included, that’s information that’s not included
?: But you have the little boxes that you tick don’t you, in er junk mail or (…) that you can
PL: Yeah, yeah, well that’s what they’re going to introduce, sorry  
LM:   You get that on some, like I was using one of the bookshops, like the other day and sort of like, you know, ‘Click the Box’, I clicked on the box [laughs] so that it wouldn’t send me any junk mail, but whether I mean, you know, how are you going to know, and what kind of address you’d have, and you know, I don’t know (5.0)
?: What’s the difference then between or are they all the same, when you see like at the end of the news they go call Crimewatch you can write to us on the website, ww whatever. Are they like what you’re accessing now, or it’s where other people’s?
LM: Yeah, no the www  
?:   They’re all called websites
LM: Are all websites that, if you want to send a message that’s more like what you were talking about at work, except it’s a kind of external where you can send you know, between organisations, email, and that can, you can have web mail, which is run through the Internet, but you can also just have a modem, and not have access to the Internet, just have access to a phone line (…)
PL: This is a CD company. So who, which artist do you want to hear about?
?: (…)
PL: Come on then  
?:   I don’t know
PL: Choose, choose, who do you want to hear about?
C: The Lightning Seeds
PL: Oh (…)[laughter]
C: I was trying to be modern, it could have been Romeo, I prefer Tom Jones really [laughter]
PL: All right, Tom Jones [laughter]
?: (…)
?: (…)
?: Actually, (…) Tom Jones clips, he just said to a friend, the next thing a friend knocked with a printout from the Internet about how many releases they had, where they were playing in (…) and he wanted to go to Spain to see them in concert but he didn’t make it, it was (…)  
?:  Yeah
PL: All right, look I’ve, so I’ve sent this information and we’ve got this warning up here, ‘Security Warning: You are about to send information over the Internet. It might be possible for other people to see what you are sending.  Do you want to continue?’
LM: All you’re saying is you’re interested in Tom Jones
PL: That’s all I’m saying [laughter] I don’t mind people knowing. [laughter] Who’s Tom Jones? [laughter] Here we are, so these are, this is Tom Jones, and these are the different albums that he’s, he’s done a lot, hasn’t he?
?: Yeah
?: Mm (4.0)
PL: ‘It’s Not Unusual’, is that an album?
?: (…)
LM: Are there any photo’s?
PL: No, there are no (…) here. Do you want to go and see him?
?: Is he is L? (…)
N: Come on girls, how can we go and see him?
?: Have you booked?
C: We, I saw him in Manchester last year and we weren’t disappointed
?: No, (…) good
PL: He’s not lost his voice yet
?: We’re about to (…)
?: Oh
?: (…)
?: (…) it was the only advert, the one I’ve heard of him
?: (…)
?: My daughter (…) we could buy him his CD and he’ll have to learn the words for (…) [laughter]
?: (…) [laughs]
PL: So here’s all, here’s his albums that they’ve got, and the cost of them. You can order them and you can, we can also sample them, I think. Which one shall we do? I don’t know, I don’t know Tom Jones’ LP’s
?: (…) [laughter]
PL: Oh yeah, that’s true, oh ‘Kiss’, I know that one. I don’t think you can play that one. ‘Move Closer’, (.) we’ll try ‘Move Closer’ (6.0) So now look, you can go and find out more about, the individual albums, these are all the albums that he’s done, so we’re going in there for this one
D: Does it play them?
PL: Yeah look, yeah
D: Yeah
?: Oh it’s good this, isn’t it ? [laughter]
PL: Oh there you go, so there’s the album, the album cover, er
?: (…)
PL: Yeah and now you can (2.0) mm, (2.0) oh right, oh yeah, that’s the one I want.  So we’ll see if we can play it (7.0)
LM: Great if it works
?: My friend, like my good friend and his friend are into the Internet, he’s got the Internet now, it’s all ‘quick, quick, come upstairs, listen to this (…)
[strains of Tom Jones in background] [laughter]
?: (…)
?: Now you see that, that  
?: Ssh
PL: So you can go, this  
?:   (…)
PL: It’s a company in America, and they’re, we’ve gone through their computer and their computer’s now playing this  
?:   Oh right
?: This is good, isn’t it? [laughter]
C: It’s amazing, you know, how does it do that?
?: We want to know, how does it do that? [laughter]
PL: Well it’s a different company, called Real Player. It’s not the company that’s selling the CD’s, ‘cos you can see it went somewhere else, it’s gone to a different company in America that stores all the records and plays it to you. We can go back to (…)  
?:   (…)
PL: So we’re communicating with two different companies at the same time 
LM: So it’s got like on, for that album it’s got a few tracks, that you could just sort of sample (…)  
?:   Sample
?:   (…) 
LM: Basically see what that album sounds like
D: So one company will be giving, paying the other company a fee or something like that, for every time er (…) (.)
PL: Well actually the Real Audio who play the records, you, they get their money because you buy their software, because this was er, sort of mono, and it was sort of not very good quality, if you want it to be better and you want video as well
?: Mm
 PL: Then you can buy their software and pay them money
LM: Yeah, I mean that was just the download, we didn’t pay for that
PL: (…)
N: I was going to say, how much would that, how much would that cost?
LM: The machine?
?: Mm
LM: The machine would be a couple of thousands pounds
C: Is it a laptop or (…)?
LM: Yeah
PL: Yeah
LM: Because it’s quite powerful and quite small
?: It is, yeah
?: And how much did you say, a couple of thousand?
LM: Yeah
?: Mm 
LM: And like, you know, like a similar thing on a desktop, probably would be more like, I don’t know, eight hundred, a thousand do you think?
PL: A thousand
?: Mm
LM: So (…)
C: And is it reliable, you know, I’ve heard laptops can be quite, you know, shaky
PL: Yeah, we did have to send it back, actually
LM: Did we? [laughter]
[Computer: ‘Leaving CompuServe’]
PL: Yeah (.)
LM: Shall we look at the Tesco one now? 
PL: Okay yeah
?: (…) [laughter]
LM: Well you said, about doing your groceries, so
PL: Okay so yeah, (…)
LM: So, that’s exactly what you can do. (2.0) I think you should have a go at this, (…)
PL: Yeah, come on 
C: I don’t know how to go on it  
LM:   Go on
C: I’m hopeless with the mouse, I can’t get it to go in the right direction  
LM:   Oh well, it’s a little bit better than it used to be, but it’s alright once you get used to it  
PL:   Oh this is a little mouse here, you just move this, move this thing around, and you can see that moves the arrow
C: Right
PL: So this is what you get when you come into Tesco’s, different products
C: Right, I can’t even see anything I want here. So do I have to choose what I want then?
PL: Yeah
C: And where I want to go
PL: Yeah
C: Erm, I’ll go through the bakery and I want
?: It’s on the left, down there
C: This?
?: No
C: Oh sorry yeah, just click that, yeah, mm (.)
LM: And then, yeah, it’s come up with a rough list of things in the bakery
C: So what do I do then if I want one?  
PL:   Go over to there
LM: Well, you have a look and see what you, what you fancy really, you can go on these arrows up and down
N: Does it have a price for everything?
LM: Mm
N: So you can budget more really?
LM: Yeah, it’ll give you a running total (…)  
C:   Do I need to be on the arrow?
LM: But you could. If you put it on that arrow there  
C: Yeah
LM: On your board
PL: Then you get a board
LM: And then use the left hand one to (…)  
?:   (…) [laughter]
C: You use this to do what with?
?: (…) when you’re hungry [laughter]
LM: If you um, put the arrow right in the middle of that arrow, then use the left hand button to click there
C: Put the arrow right in the middle of that arrow and then (…)
PL: That’s it
LM: Yeah
C: Oh right
LM: So you can see it’s giving you a long list of things in the bakery  
PL:   So now click on one of those, choose one
C: Um (.) just like that, you mean?
PL: Yeah
C: Erm, what’ll I have? I’ll have Hovis [laughter] so I need to make it go there
PL: Yeah
C: And then I can click
PL: Yeah, that’s it
C: Right
PL: And now it’s giving you the different Hovis, all related
C: Well I wouldn’t put this much effort in (…) [laughter] if it ran off. You wouldn’t though, would you, really?
PL: Yeah, I actually do, do it [laughter]
C: You do?  
PL: Yeah
C: How long does it take you?
PL: Well, you, you, the thing about this is that we’re not on-line, so we’re not using any money, so you can just, that’s right, if you click on that one, let’s click on one of these
C: Where, which one?
PL: Come over here
C: Come over there
PL: Choose one
C: Erm, I’ll choose that one
PL: And come over to where  
LM:  You have to double click
PL: Where the thing is
C: What, so I have to actually go on the thing you mean  
PL:   Yeah, under the name
C: Right, and I’ve got to click twice
PL: Yeah (.) um, try it again and do it quickly
LM: That’s it
PL: Very good, oh there you are, it’s put it in your shopping basket
C: Oh, gosh
PL: So now if you go to ‘Checklists’
C: ‘Checklists’ yeah,  and click?
PL: Yeah, then this is your current shopping basket, and these are the cost of your items  
LM:   We’ve been getting a bit carried away [laughter]
PL: So you build up your shopping basket, and then when you’re ready, you connect up and just order it
N: Do they charge you for delivery?
PL: Mm, five pounds
?: Is it?
C: So it’s five pounds delivery, it’s what it’s costing you when you’re doing this, but that, is that  
PL:   Nothing
C: Information then stored, can you keep that for your next time?
PL: Yeah, that just sits there
LM: So you can build up like a list of basics that you buy every week say
C: Yeah, no I would fancy that. Think of (…)
?: (…)
C: Yeah, I think I’d (…). What would you do with stuff like the price, when the price alters and stuff, do they sort of  
PL: Well you can, what you can do is you can check the prices before you order. You go on-line, and then they download all the current prices, and then you can update your, on the computer here, it’s got a database with all the prices on, for all the products, and you can go on-line every month and get the new prices
C: What happens when they’ve got special offers on, how do you know those?
PL: That’s a problem
?: You probably don’t
?: Three for two (…)
C: So you don’t know do you?
PL: It’s a surprise when it comes [laughter]
C: Oh so  
LM:   But you can find those things out on their website can’t you?
PL: It doesn’t really work
LM: Does it not check your information? 
PL: It doesn’t really  
C:   So you’re missing the bargains, then, really, aren’t you, I mean you can’t see the marked down salads and stuff and things like that, can you? (…) [laughter]
PL: You don’t get any marked down salads, [laughter] you just the fresh ones, I’m afraid
N: You don’t get trolley ache standing in Tesco’s [laughter]
PL: That’s true [laughs]
D: My daughter works there after school, and she comes in, she’s thirty now, she’ll come in, she’ll go ‘ooh those customers’
?: Yeah
?: (…)
?: It’s (…) trying to find er space in the car park (…) Tesco’s  
?: (…) I can’t go to Tesco’s because I’m frightened of the revolving door 
?: (…) [laughter]
D: Terrified of it, I think it’s stupid that I don’t (…)
?: (…) complain 
C: Well, they lost my custom and I’ve moved to Sainsbury’s [laughs] (.)
PL: Sainsbury’s have got a site as well
?: Is it just in London that they do it at the moment?
PL: Er, no, Tesco’s are doing it in Leeds and London and er, Sainsbury’s are actually doing it North of London, not actually in London
?: Oh right
PL: But they’ll, they’ll expand, they’re expanding the areas that they’re doing it in all the time
C: Do you know if it is used a lot? Do you know that? 
PL: I don’t know how much it’s used  
C:   You don’t know
 PL: No
C: But you genuinely do use it
PL: I have, yeah, yeah
C: Regularly, or not, you know, just to see what it’s like
PL: I’ve just used it a few times
N: (…) and (…) is it a crappy little (…) one?
PL: Well you can choose, you can say, you can ask them to like what they’ve got in the store is your list goes to your local store, and then they have an expert, what they call an expert shopper who goes round and does your shop for you 
?: Oh (…)
PL: And you can ask them to substitute, so you order a certain kind of apples, and you can say, but substitute so if  they’ve run out of those then they’ll pick similar ones
?:Yeah
?: (…) [laughs]
PL: Well, er, actually it’s interesting, because the, the, yeah and people say about what about the avocados, but the avocados I’ve got have been better than the ones I get when I go myself
?: Really?
PL: Yeah
LM: They might be a better shopper than you
PL: Yes
?: Mm, the expert shopper, (…)[laughter] professional shopper
C: But anyone would be a better shopper than me because I hate it, frankly, and I  move things around I’m so annoyed(…) and I grab the same stuff and that’s it, I want to get out
?: Yeah, so you’re a  boring shopper
?: Oh I hate Tesco 
?: (…) [laughter]
LM: So does that appeal to you or not?
?: Oh that would (…)
?: Erm, (…) it’s got potential [laughs] yeah
PL: What do you think about the site, and the way that it’s set up there and the lists and stuff
?: Yeah
?: (…) [laughs] can’t be that complicated
?:  It’s just new to us, isn’t it
C: Yeah, I suppose you would speed up with time, wouldn’t you?
?: (…)
?: (…) frightened of it, yeah, at the moment
C: And the thing, the thing you could be flexible with is that you could have your standard things, sort of ordered ready for you and then you could arrive at the shop choose the other bits that you wanted yourself so
PL: Right, right, right
?: It could be useful, shopping (…)
C: It must be really useful for housebound people (…) 
?: Yeah 
C: It must be a bit of a boost, mustn’t it really, give them a bit more independence  
?:   Christmas, it’d be handy over Christmas time, when you can’t get in
?:  Oh yeah, in the car park 
?: In the car park
?: Or in the shop [laughter]
N: It might be good ‘cos like my (…) she can’t erm, she’s housebound, she can’t leave the house and things she, so my mum comes and does her shopping for her (…)
?: (…) enjoyment of it
?: Yeah, yes
N: And looking for things she could get, so she hasn’t been, she can’t go herself, so she gets the same things sort of every week and (…) my mum always says ‘oh have you tried this or she’s seen something advertised on the television, but with that she could look through and that would be like really good for her
?: Do they have smells or anything, or (…)? [laughter]
?: (…) [laughter]
PL: Sound as you can see, but not smell, no
LM: The sound of wailing children [laughter] the grinding of trolleys [laughter]
PL: And the muzak
?: (…) at the tills
?: I think I  
?:   I would do my shopping but I wouldn’t get clothes off the er
PL: Right
?: Because I’d like to go and see them, try them on, take them back (.) if you need to
LM: What about if you could get clothes that you couldn’t get anywhere else but they sent you and you could send back if it was (…)  
?:   Mm, yeah, that’s what (…)
?:   That would be nice because L haven’t got many shops have they, you know when magazines say where this is from
?: Yeah
?: And we’ve not got the shops nowhere near us  
D:   No, my daughter has complained about that one if you can only get that in London, you know, why you know but they’re all the same
?: Yeah, yeah what about that because  
?:   (…) 
LM: (…) go to the website of a shop that you only get in London
?: Yeah, that would appeal to me
?: Mm
?: Mm, it would appeal to my girls [laughs]
?: I, I go to London quite a lot, shopping and things
?: Mm
?: ‘Cos as you say, there’s not the (…) or you do, you see something in a magazine you know and you go to the directory (…) haven’t got one here
?: No
?: Or everyone’s got the same but something like that would appeal to me
?: It would appeal to my little daughter, she’s very fashion conscious and fastidious
and everything’s got to be right, so she wouldn’t, she would never be away
?: (…) if you’re looking for something really special
?: Yeah
?: (…)
LM: Right and what about um yeah say with the holidays, do you feel safe doing that or would you, would it be something that you’d put the effort into, you know, doing (…)
?: Well I wouldn’t mind, I mean, you pick the brochures up as you would normally, wouldn’t you really, to have a look through it, and then you could just do that, because you can wait a long time, can’t you doing it by (…)
?: I’ve been broke [laughs] for a long time, so I don’t know, I would do holidays, and shopping for food, but I still wouldn’t do clothes
?: This year is the first year we’ve ever ventured into the travel agents to try and book a holiday, and that was really stressful (…) having to do it that way you would just phone up and book over the phone (…) or look on Teletext if you’ve got Teletext, it was just  so stressful going in to the shop  
?:   (…) everywhere
?: And looking through the brochures and the lady saying ‘now (…) and stuff and can you be a bit clearer it’s like (…) we’re going to have to phone Thompson’s because they didn’t have the brochure in the shop so we’ll have to phone them and get back to you, I’ve still got to ring them back up tomorrow and I suppose if you could get all the information  
PL:   Mm
LM: Mm
?:   On-line, it would be like easier sort of thing and you feel like you’re pestering them because    
?:   (…) it seems like you’re wasting their time if you’re not looking at holidays (…)  
?:   (…) actually book them, (…) booked it and then it got cancelled because the flights got changed and I just never seemed to be out of the travel agents and even today it’s like well what time are the flights and stuff ‘cos (…) and they didn’t have a reservation  
C:   Well if you’d booked through that and then you’re getting all these complications do you have to go back to that for them to be solved?
?: How would you know what was happening?
PL: Because they’ll send you an email
LM: Yeah [laughter] (2.0)
C: ‘Cos that could be quite complicated really
?: Yeah
C: Couldn’t it?
?: Yeah
C: I mean, and all the time, that is costing you money, isn’t it?  When you’re using it it’s costing more money
?: Yeah (.)
?: It’s just like Teletext, you’re frightened of using it at first weren’t you and then you’re, you think it’s great, it’ll be the same as that if you used it once and it worked you’ll think mm
?: (…) 
?: It’s just new to you?
PL: We talked about companies that we know, like Tesco, Sainsbury’s, Thomas Cook’s and stuff, but what about if there were new companies like the bookshop company, and CD Now, they, they’re not companies that existed before the Internet,  how would you feel like if there was an Internet supermarket, not Sainsbury’s or Tesco’s, but I don’t know, what you’d call it. [laughter] Nets?  
?: NetFoods
PL: NetFoods [laughter] but that doesn’t sound too good, though 
?: No (…)
PL: But anyway [laughter]
C: You can’t go there
PL: You couldn’t go there because it wouldn’t exist, it would just be a warehouse somewhere, what would you, what would you think about that?
?: I don’t know, I don’t want to change you see really
?: No
?: Well if you did the rounds, I don’t suppose it would make any difference
C: No, it’s sort of (…) but you can’t see it, type of thing (…) do you know what I mean? I think it’s, I can’t see it being a sort of value for money, though, because you’re having to use the machinery, you’re having to rely on other people, so that’s wages, so there’s a lot of extra costs going on that the consumer is going to pay for, so I don’t know how they’d it make it, make it work for them
PL: Well one of the biggest costs is the actual stores that (…)
?: Mm
PL: And then the distribution of the stores. All that would go, because they’d have a big  
?:   One big place yeah
PL: One big warehouse outside L would serve the whole area
?: And if that went you’re stuck with no shopping [laughter]
?: (…) people could like afford it, but if before you couldn’t afford it (…) you know, if everybody was on the Internet (…)
?: Nobody’s going to go out the house though are they? 
?: No (2.0)
?: Not if you (…) [laughter]
?: (…) Saturday morning, every morning
C: And would it be open all hours? That might be convenient
PL: Yeah
LM: It wouldn’t necessarily deliver all hours [laughter] but you could shop at all hours
C: I bet you they would if you lived in America [laughter]
PL: Well yeah
?: Yeah, but if you had a quiet evening you could say I want to do the shopping tonight
?: Yeah shopping tonight
?: Deliver at ten o’clock Saturday morning or whenever and you  
?:   Yeah (…)
C: I think really high powered people with very busy lives would find that marvellous wouldn’t they, they’d probably use it all the time
?: Yes, definitely
?: You’d order (…)  
?:   But then if you ordered your clothes and that, your food and that and whatever else, what (…) time?
?: What would you do with your time?
?: (…) a little bit more traditional
?: Swim
C: I can think of lots to do with my time other than shop. I hate shopping, but I need to (…)
?: (…)
?: I hate shopping (…)
?: I love shopping
?: Do you really? I hate it
?: Do you love it?
?: Yeah
PL: So you, you’d miss shopping then?
?: I do I’m in town, I’m tired
?: I like pushing trolleys and (…) being stuck there for half an hour
PL: [laughs]
?: I’m not talking about grocery shopping, I’m talking about clothes shopping
?: Yeah I don’t mind (…) either I just don’t like (…) shopping
?: I window shop, I walk around the town for hours (.) and have lunch down there erm, even if I don’t buy, I just love to the shops, love it, so that really wouldn’t be of any use to me, sorry [laughter]
LM: What about the kind of shopping you don’t like, you know you’re saying there’s
grocery shopping and then there’s shopping, proper shopping 
?: Proper shopping [laughter]
J: Proper shopping, well it would be pointless really just to have it for that, I think, it would be too expensive just to have it for grocery shopping
PL: But is the price the main problem, I mean what, so for example in America you don’t pay for local phone calls, so if that, if that came in and you had free local phone calls  
?:   If it came in
PL: And as computers are getting cheaper all the time eventually they’ll be
?: They will be cheaper (…)
PL: Hey, televisions used to be really expensive but now they’re um much cheaper so  
C:   I think you’d have to have a computer though, to do other things with as well, you’re not going to have um that initial outlay just so you can shop, are you, you know what I mean, you’re going to have to 
PL: Well, one of the things that’s going to develop is um, you know, digital television, have you heard about it
?: Yes, I’ve heard about it
?: Oh yes, I have heard (…) movies now
PL: Yeah (…) and they’ll also have a link to the Internet through the digital television
?: Oh right
PL: So you can   
?:   Makes it more accessible for people
PL: And the what’s it called, the remote control they, you’d be able to do the Internet through the remote control (…)
?: Yeah
?: It would be brilliant
?: (…) wouldn’t it? [laughter]
?: We’ll have three weeks aswell [laughter]
?: (…) match and you’ve got a week to go [laughs]  
PL: Hey, who’s playing tonight?
?: They both are
?: Germany 
?: Germany (…) did the earlier one (3.0)
LM: Okay, well can I also um just ask what sort of, if this takes off, and I mean we don’t know whether it will, what, what do think will be the sort of big issues around it, like for regulation or for the (…) do you think there’ll be any need to sort of do  anything to control things?
?: (…) like credit checks on the (…) because you could seriously get into some debt couldn’t you, you know?
C: But you can do that on the high street can’t you, every shop you go into they’re offering you a card, and you can have hundreds of different cards  
?:   But this is just not like shopping is it at all?  It’s just you know (…)  
?:   (…) carried away (…)
N: But I mean I suppose if you went to Tesco’s or wherever and erm you’re shopping you’re more likely to write a cheque or use cash because you’re using this it’s your credit card, isn’t it and it’s like (…) comes in view on (…) or whatever  
?:   That’s how I use my credit card I never have cash or anything like that, well it’s a debit card I just use mine for everything (…)  
N:   Yeah I suppose (…) a credit card, but I mean actually like a credit card
?: I’d be bothered about the security because I’ve heard of talk that they can actually take your details, and you know they can be used for something
C: Yeah, I’d be worried about getting all this unwanted literature, I wouldn’t want, you know, I’d want it to be useful for me, I wouldn’t want them panning all this stuff back at me
?: Mm
C: ‘Cos that’s bad enough as it is, isn’t it? Every time you go to the letterbox (…) in the bin [laughs]
?: Mm
N: (…) and it is putting your credit details in, because, I mean, people can just, I know they say people can’t get your details, but (…)  
?:   I thought they could 
?: I mean it just shows you can do anything on that
C: I think a computer whiz could, they could probably use your credit card for their shopping, couldn’t they? I mean I bet you that could happen
?: Well there’ll be fraud with it surely, they’ll defraud anything don’t they people?
?: Something like (…)
?: It would eventually yeah
LM: What if you had the same kind of rights as you would now, in terms of kind of credit protection that you’d have, you know if somebody stole your credit card or if you went to your band and said like (…)
?: It’s proving it that though isn’t it?
?: Yeah, how would you prove it?
C: And actually haven’t you got to report your card stolen, until then, but, it’s your problem, isn’t it, you’re liable for debt I think you’ve only got something like twenty-four hours haven’t you? So that would take, that would take (…) wouldn’t it?
?: Yeah
?: So that’s not
PL: Well until you got your next bill
?: Mm
?: And it’s too late then
?: If you come in and alter the different ones, you could lose track what you’ve bought couldn’t you?
?: Yes
?: There’s something (.) yeah
?: I think if you feel compelled to use a kind of (…) to weight it down aswell and if you’re going to do that, (…)
?: No, no
PL: Well, it’s interesting actually, because you’re supposed to be able to print out the Tesco’s list, so you can get a printout, ‘cos you know if you’ve got a printer attached to the computer but unfortunately they made it, there was a bug in the program so the printing doesn’t work
?: Oh [laughter]
?: Do you still get your receipt?
PL: Oh yeah
?: Yeah, so you can check it off?
PL: Well when, when they bring the shop they actually come with a normal till receipt, and you know, and a normal bit that you get at the end of a receipt to sign with your debit card, it’s just like you’re in the shop, but they bring it to sign
?: Well thinking about that, if that means you’ve got check everything off the list as I comes in to see that you’ve got it  
PL:   No, they do that for you
?: Do they?
?: You’ve got to trust them
PL: You get a copy of the list and they tick off things that they have and they say, they even write a little explanation 
?: Mm
?: Gosh
LM: What, if they didn’t have something in stock?
PL: Or if they substitute
?: Well, I don’t know
C: Yeah, but there wouldn’t be anything to stop the delivery person taking (…)
?: It sounds good but if Iceland (…) or if anybody goes to the shops (…) [laughter]
LM: You could (…)
?: I think it’s open, it could be open to abuse
?: It’s checking the different stores aswell, I mean some things could be cheaper in Asda than it is in Tesco’s and it’s like if you go into town now and (…) buy yourself a cheap top in Selfridges, or you know like where the little cheap shops are that sell them with the labels cut off or something like that, don’t you?
C: The thing I find about groceries, though is that you tend to go to the same place don’t you, (…) or anywhere, I mean I’ve got this reward card, I think it’s lovely and I can see (…) sticking to things though I think you tend to go to the same place don’t you?
?: Mm
?: Mm
LM: Coming back to what you were saying before about not wanting junk mail ‘cos people kind of know what sort of things you’ve been buying, um do you think there is anything more, anything more sinister about people kind of having the kind of technology to know quite a lot about your preferences for food and wine and clothes and holidays and actually build up quite a detailed profile of you and your consumptions 
?: Yeah, I don’t like it
?: I wouldn’t like it
?: (…)
?: No
?: Do you know I rang a bank ‘cos we’ve got, well my husband’s got an account, I’ve got an account and we’ve got a joint account and they knew what I paid out in direct debit, how would you know that?  Because she said ‘oh, you pay so and so out’ and I’m going ‘I don’t know whether I pay that’ (…) but they shouldn’t do that should they? 
C: I think it’s very easy for anyone to access my direct debit (…)  
?:   (…) my direct debits that went out of my account 
C:  (…) confirmation about personal some, somebody knowing what I was eating wouldn’t particularly worry me, because I think the er, access to all the information about people’s there anyway, I think you would be really horrified if you what people knew about you, wouldn’t you?
PL: Oh
LM: So you mean, is it just a matter of privacy, like what you’re saying is it’s really is it’s none of  your business (…)  
N:   (…) the girl at the end of the phone knew exactly what I paid out my direct debit (…) cheek
LM: So what about if Sainsbury’s can (.) advertise, they can pay you their advertising, does that make, I mean do you think that they’ve got an advantage in terms of trying to sell things to you or would you feel like well  
PL:   So if that  
?:   They’ve probably already tailored their advertising though haven’t they [coughing]
in different  
PL:   In different areas
?:   By different ways and means
LM: They do a bit but  
C:   (…) their market research you’d be out of jobs wouldn’t you, because they’re getting it for all of us yeah [laughs]
LM: Like with the loyalty card for example, at Sainsbury’s say they could actually analyse everything you spent on that card since you first got it
?: (…) must be able to
?: I think they can anyway (…) if they wanted
?: (…) Tesco’s card (…) you need it for vouchers for the money off, and it says on there how many points for how much you’ve spent on erm petrol and how much you’ve spent on groceries (…) you’ve spent a hundred and fifty pounds on petrol and so many points, you know and you could distinguish that and that (…)
D: I wouldn’t be bothered about if people knew what I ate  
?:   No
D: But I’d be bothered if they had like a wider picture, in different shops
?: Mm
D: ‘Cos it would be your lifestyle then (…)
LM: Yeah
?: You could miss out on bargains aswell couldn’t you?
C: I think in a, in a personal way if people had a lot of information about you, I’m trying to think of something really threatening they could do with it, and I can’t really so they’d only use it for their research wouldn’t they?
LM: Yeah
C: So I don’t think it would worry me
PL: Well one thing they do, at the moment, for example, if you think about promotions, er they offer promotions generally, I mean they’re usually put on the shelf, you know like so and so much off a particular product and it’s available to anyone who wants to try it, but what they could do with this individual information is actually offer individual promotions. They’d analyse your shopping basket, they’d realise that they could perhaps persuade you to buy something else, and they could just give you the offer, so you get individual offers, rather than offers being on the shelves  
?: And would they do that?
PL: Well, they’re trying to do that
LM: Not yet I don’t think but I mean the (…)  
PL:   Couldn’t manage it, but they’re developing the work on it
C: But how would they, how would they give you the information that you were getting that offer?
?: (…)
?: Yeah
PL: Well, they can do it in all sorts of ways, so for example you could have a kiosk, or kiosks, they’re like computers with a swipe, you swipe your loyalty card through, and it says, ‘oh hello, erm, would you like to try these offers’, and then it prints them out for you as you go in the store, that would be one way of doing it
?: But you wouldn’t go in the store would you?
PL:  Well you, I mean that’s for people, this is just for people who use loyalty cards
?: Oh right, not through this?
PL: Not necessarily on the Internet (.) But there might be different, they won’t just be using the Internet, they’ll be using digital television and kiosks, all sorts of different technologies will come in touch. (.) And one of things is that they’ll, I mean, at the moment they, they, they have the till receipts, but they don’t know whose till receipts each one is
?: What’ll they do if you put your  
?:   (…) if you’ve got a loyalty card
?: What about loyalty cards?
PL: Yeah ah now, but before I mean before the loyalty card 
?: Well if you had your credit card (…) 
PL: Yes but they couldn’t, the stores can’t identify you from a credit card number
?: Can’t they?
PL: No
?: (…)
?: I bet you they could [laughter]
PL: Well
?: If they wanted to
PL: No they’re not. That’s, that’s data protection  
?:   (…)
PL: [laughs] 
?: So is that why they have these loyalty cards then, so that they can?
PL: (.) Well, it’s um  
LM: It’s one of the reasons  
PL: It’s one of the reasons [laughter]
?: Yeah
D: I never thought of it in that way (.)
?: And here we are just thinking we’re shopping [laughter] (…)
LM: So is that, do you see that as a service, I mean maybe it would save you a lot of junk mail if all the promotions sales (…) things that you might actually be interested in
PL: [laughs] Yeah
?: Yeah, yeah
?: Although when you do fill things in now, you can tick whether you want them or not, so that’s supposed to be tailored but it’s not, you still get all the rest
PL: Mm (.)
?: Gruesome (4.0)
C: I think it’s got the potential and I like the idea but um for me because there’s stuff and things to do in the house it’s going to be easier for me to use it for, I’m not going to make a desperate effort to buy all the equipment [laughs] you know, or perhaps pay more money to have it on the telly ‘cos presumably, if the televisions will be expensive won’t they, initially won’t they (…)
?: You can’t (…) old dinosaurs [laughs] I can’t change my ways now [laughter] probably my daughters would, but not me
?: I could see that I’d use the shopping, we haven’t got a computer at home, but eventually when the children get older, we probably will and then I’d use the shopping 
?: Yeah, I think if we had one, I’d have a go at the shopping
PL: But that’s the near future, but what about twenty years from now?
?: Oh gosh
?: Imagine it
?: We won’t be doing anything (…) [laughter]
C: (…) how long ago, how many years ago they say you know, you couldn’t be doing this you know, we’ll still plodding along aren’t we, doing the same old thing (…)
PL: Mm, mm
?: I don’t know, I think it’s just another I don’t know corner of the market isn’t it, I don’t think it’s going to capture (…)   
?:   Yeah, I don’t think it’s going to take off
?: (…) I don’t know room for it maybe
PL: Right, right (4.0)
LM: Mm, okay well I don’t think I’ve got anymore questions, I think you’ve been great, lots of interesting things  
PL:   (…) any other observations or ideas? (.)
?: No
?: No, I don’t think so (.)
PL: Okay
LM: Alright then, well, thank you very much, it’s been really interesting 
?: Okay
?: Thank you (.)
LM: Happy shopping [laughter]


 
Group 14
L, 26.09.98
C2DE Men

PL: We’re doing some research into shopping on the Internet, is basically what we’re (…) and um, so we’re going to talk about, is it alright if we tape the group
?: Yes
?: Absolutely
PL: (…) transcribe it, we can never remember what people say as we go along. OK, look what I’d like to start with us doing is if we just go round and say who we are and just say what, generally what experience with computers you’ve got and um whether you’ve um, particularly if you’ve done Internet shopping (…) but generally, do you want to start?
M: Well I’m M, I live on (…), er I don’t have a computer as such like, but 
brother-in-law’s got one so I have a little, slight little dabble with that, I don’t know exactly what to do like but er he’ll tell me like but er I think they’re fascinating things like, you know, but er other than that, that’s about as far as I can like [laughs] you know
PL: Right, right
M: Yeah, but er I’d be interested in getting one like, you know (…) because I’m working with (…) like and you can (…) things like, you know, just been saying to one of the, the boys here like, you know erm, (…) just ask me for my surname and like you say, tracking for it all over the world, till certain amounts of people like, you know (…) it’s amazing what they can do with them
PL: Mmm, mmm
M: But er I think they’re fantastic might actually get one if I win the lottery or something like that [laughs]
PL: Yeah, OK
G: My name’s G,  I live in er W and I do a lot of shopping, you know, my auntie’s in a wheelchair
PL: Right
G: So, you know and we haven’t got a computer
PL: So you actually go to the shop?
G: Oh, ay, I go to the shops, yes, yeah, but er, some of the shops you, we go to, you know, they haven’t got the wheelchairs
PL: Right
G: For, you know the baskets for the wheelchairs, but er, and toilet paper
PL: Right
G: [laughs]
P: My name’s erm P erm I’m unemployed, and married erm three children living W Road not far from here [coughs] erm I, we do well shopping more or less like everyone else but we do do a lot of mail order shopping aswell
PL: Right
P: From catalogues
PL: Right
P: I’ve never done any Internet shopping, but erm with it being, well I imagine it’d be similar to catalogues really, see the pictures and you can order. I would be interested in it, but erm I can’t get computers into my brain, budget wise
PL: Right, right
P: And I’ve got some experience with computers aswell
PL: Right, OK
J: I’m J, I’m twenty-nine, er I come from L, er I’m not familiar with Internet shopping at all, to be quite honest, erm I do a little bit of mail order shopping and shopping in high street stores and stuff but I’d be interested in Internet shopping. I would like to get a computer but I don’t know to get a good one I suppose it’s having a couple of thousand pounds to spare, do you know what I mean, to, but I, it interests me a lot doing Internet shopping
PL: Mmm, mmm, OK
Jo: Well, I’m J, I’m eighteen, I come from (…) never used an Internet in my life like
PL: Right
Jo: And, but got catalogues you know, but never used it and (…) wouldn’t know how to use one
PL: OK
Jo: Find out how to use one
PL: OK, what about, what about generally computing, not just for shopping but again so er so what about
P: I’m trying to get erm more interested in computers, because of my erm children
PL: Yeah
P: They’re eighteen and ten, they’re always talking about them, they’re on at me to get one, but even the cheapest’s like eight or nine hundred pounds
PL: Yeah, yeah
G: My eyes are not good enough for it, because I’ve got very bad eyesight, you know
PL: That’s a real problem isn’t it?
G: Yeah
PL: Because the screen’s
G: It is, it is
PL: Yeah, yeah, so (.) I think Bill Gates has said he’s going to do something about that,  but I don’t know
?: Yeah [laughs]
?: I think it’s really interesting, the Internet and stuff, I mean besides shopping, stuff like that my mates had a (…) and he got a little bit of his stuff, he’d just started off using (…) and he got a little bit put on the Internet and he got a bit of fan mail from Texas [laughter] from Texas (…) [laughter] really brilliant etc, etc but it just, you know, besides I mean just some amazing stuff, I mean, what can be done with it, yeah, and I’ve used it actually to get erm chords for songs, I play a lot of guitar and stuff
PL: Right, right
?: And my mates help me, he, I don’t know wherever he works and stuff, he’s got access to the Internet and all like the music and stuff and from all over the world people just put it on the Internet, this is an easy version how to play ‘Hey Jude’ say 
PL: Oh right
?: And erm, so little bits like that yeah
PL: I’ll have to get the address of that site from you later [laughter]
?: Yeah
?: Well like I was saying before about the brother-in-law who’s, he’s got one and was showing me things, like I’m having a christening this year for the twins on, on August and he said ‘Well, I’ll do your invitations, will you let me do that?’. I just pressed this button and all these, the er designs come up on the screen, so he said, ‘Which one do you want?’
PL: Right, right
?: And I said, ’Well I’ll have that one with the bump’ and he said, ‘How many copies?’ and you just think like you know Christ the things they can do just like that
PL: And print it out?
?: And they just print it out like you know yeah and that’s it away you go, you can even do it whilst you’re writing my name and everything and say like I’m sending one to you (…) from Len to Dave or whatever like you know get it all done
PL: Mmm, mmm
?: That’s amazing, yeah, I mean they’re cracking things
PL: Well what about the, have you heard anything about er the Internet shopping?
?: No
PL: Do you know anything about it?
?: No
?: No
?: It’s just er (…) show us what it can do, like you know, but er
PL: Mmm, mmm
?: You see, that’s as far as it goes, really
PL: Alright, well we’ve got a computer here so shall we, shall we, can we show you 
?: Yeah
PL: Some of the sites that are just (.)
?: It is right that we get one to take home is that right? [laughter]
PL: I don’t think our budget can
?: How much would that set you back, Liz?
LM: Probably a couple of thousand
?: Yeah?
?: Yeah, I don’t know was it that much Pete?
?: Brilliant isn’t it?
PL: Yeah
?: This is so minute this, isn’t it?
?: It’s amazing [laughter]
PL: Can you see everything there?
?: Yeah
?: Yeah
?: Can you actually shop on the Internet now?
PL: Yeah
?: You can
PL: We’ll look at some of the sites you’ll see (.)
G: Wouldn’t you say it would be better, be a good idea if you put it on Teletext aswell?
PL: Yeah
G: Be a good idea wouldn’t it?
PL: Yeah, well that’s right I mean the, it’s early days I think really
G: Yeah
PL: As far as the services, so the, the, I think one plan is to 
G: Yeah
PL: Make them available, like digital, digital television? Within a year or two
G: Oh ay, yes
PL: So with digital television, there’ll be able to connect that to the Web
G: Yeah
PL: And you’ll get, be up to the what they call remote control
G: Will that be like prices of different things? And
PL: It’ll be more like, you know the shopping channels?
?: Yeah
?: QVC
?: You just press a button, then it’s ordered, it’s yours, that type of thing, yeah?
G: Well they’ve got to have something er remote on television, you know, to er
?: Yeah, yeah
G: Shop on
?: Are you familiar with (…)?
PL: No
?: Oh it’s just a club, a corporation I think it’s in the States and in Australia and they do sort of like, sort of like shopping from home
PL: Right
?: I wondered if they were behind it maybe, you know, ‘cos they could have a site on it maybe
LM: I know what you mean, they do like mass distribution of like
?: Yeah
LM: They started off with a cleaning product
?: That’s it
LM: Didn’t they, yeah, no it’s quite a while back, they’re quite big though
?: Yeah, they are, massive. They’re all over the place, Japan, Malaysia, they’re all
PL: Shall we see if we can find them then
?: Yeah, yeah
LM: Yeah
PL: [laughs] ‘Cos I’ve never seen that one
G: What’s that there, is that er?
PL: Oh, that’s the screen saver
G: Yeah
PL: So it stops the screen um, if the same image is on the screen for a
G: Yeah
PL: Long time, it can damage the screen, so that just. I’ve just set it up like that because I like it
G: Oh, yes
PL: [laughs] It’s good isn’t it?
?: It’s groovy, yeah
G: Very good, yeah
PL: Again, it goes away as soon as I 
G: Yeah
PL: As I do something. OK, now what, who’s going to have a go? Go on, take it in turns
?: Can I have a look at it?
PL: Go on then
?: If I can understand what you’re doing
PL: Right well, so this is just a, the computer so first we’ve got to connect to the Internet, so if you, see I’ve put the arrow on there
?: Yeah
PL: You move the arrow with this thing, this ball here
?: I’m with you, yeah
PL: And then you click, double click on there
?: Yeah
PL: That’s it. (.) So do you know about the idea of an Internet provider
?: No (…)
PL: The service provider
C: Welcome to Compuserve
PL: Right, well [laughs] welcome to Compuserve. This is, this Internet service provider, this is one of them, Compuserve, another one would be Netscape and there are a whole range of them
?: Yeah
PL: Demon or, a whole range of them. What they, what they do is they’re like gateways to the Internet, ‘cause the Internet is just like all the computers in the world connected up
?: Yeah
?: Right
PL: But you have to get into it and so these companies get you in there basically
?: Right, yeah
PL: So like Gates
?: Yeah
PL: So we’re going in through this particular gate today on  
?:   That’s why he’s worth thirty-five million, billion type of thing like you know [laughs]
PL: Yeah [laughter] (3.0) Alright, so here we go over here, we’re going to browse the Internet
?: Right (10.0)
PL: OK, let’s just click  (.) OK so it’s dialling now, we’ve got it connected to here, to the telephone
?: Yeah
PL: So she’s not going to be able to make a phone call, while we’re
?: Right
PL: While we’re on line, it’s just as if someone was on the phone
?: Yes
PL: It’s, it’s us on the computer
?: How much is it? Sorry, what’s your name again?
PL: Pete, Peter
?: How much is it Peter, you know for the like the average
PL: Well
?: You know ‘cause you’re using the phone line and stuff like
PL: Yeah, right, well it’s like a local phone call
?: Right
PL: So it’s like um, it’s just as if you were making a call, a local call 
?: So is this something like, you could speak to someone over, overseas with this
PL: Yeah but  
?:   Sort of thing, through the computer, hi this is blah, blah, blah
PL: Yeah but you’re just paying the local call
?: Amazing
?: Right, yeah
?: I thought that was really, I thought that was expensive, you know like overseas call maybe. It’s quite cheap isn’t it?
LM: Well, you have to pay like a monthly fee to  
?:   How much is that?
?: Is that the Internet fee type of thing is it you know?
PL: Yes, that’s (…) to the service provider
LM: About five, ten quid
?: Is that all?
PL: Well
?: Five quid a month
PL: You can, you can do different deals, Liz, if you pay, you can pay less to begin with and pay, and you pay for the time that you’re on or you can pay a bit more and have unlimited time
?: And they’ll have, each company’ll have like a package deal?
PL: Yeah
?: Sort of thing, yeah?
LM: It’s kind of like mobile phone deals actually
?: Yeah
LM: You can buy an expensive one, and then you know apply for
?: Yeah
LM: I don’t know
?: Like log tariff and stuff
LM: Yeah
?: Yeah
LM: It’s kind of like that
?: Amazing, I thought it was really expensive (.)
PL: We seem to be having a bit of a problem here, getting er, getting through (2.0)
LM: Do you want me to check if they’re on the phone?
PL: Mmm, hang on (3.0) Look’s like
?: I’ve only come on five minutes, put your wire on and I’ve buggered it already [laughter]
?: Is there a type of lock on this so that no children can just like order Versace leather jackets or something like [laughter]
PL: You can do
?: Yeah and also ‘cause they’d have a fair, (…) password [laughter]
?: Mmm?
?: Eh?
?: Yeah
G: [laughs] Or get into your bank account
?: Yeah
LM: There isn’t on this one
PL: Right who’s going to have a go now?
?: I’ll, I’ll
PL: Go on, have a go, that’s it (.). So do, OK so here’s, just move that, move it round and back till you’re on the arrow
?: Right
PL: And um, when you want to, you click on the left here
?: OK
PL: So if you go up to (…) there. Just one click on the left, right now, these are some of the sites that we’ve already visited, they’re shopping sites
?: Yeah
PL: So, what have we got? 
?: Loot’s there
PL: Loot, yeah, do you want to have a look at that? (…)
?: Oh what’s that one there? The earth’s biggest book store
PL: Yeah 
?: Will these, will these list loads of books yeah?
PL: Have a go, have a go
?: Yeah
PL: Or CD Now is a CD store
?: Oh, is it?
PL: Yeah
?: Mmm [laughter] (…) music [laughter]
PL: (…) music [laughter]
?: Music
PL: Yeah
?: Sorry (…) Shall I look round?
PL: Yeah (7.0) OK, so now it’s going to that company’s website, it’s going, connecting up from the computer, from the local computer here to, well to, this is an American company
?: Yeah
PL: And we’re now going to be linked up to their computer
?: Mmm
PL: So, are we there yet? (3.0) That’s personalising, that, that, what, what that’s ask, saying is that you can er influence it so you get the page you want and the selections you want in the music ‘cause they’ve got this huge selection
?: Vast selection, yeah
PL: So that’s  
?:   Soul and dance and whatever (…) sort of thing 
PL: Yes, we’ll see (16.0) Have you seen this before Liz? There’s a new, there’s this thing that’s got a personalisation questionare
LM: Oh, no I haven’t seen that yet [laughter] That’s new
PL: You put information about yourself in there
?: On what’d suit you, sort of thing
PL: Yeah, yeah
LM: That’s chronic
PL: And then you get less time, and less, we don’t want to do this now though [laughter]
We just want to look at records er
LM: Well, just delete that page and then you go back to the main
PL: Well, this is what we got when we came up
?: It is there
LM: No, but look is that not, oh no you’re right actually
?: You must have to go through this before you can get access to it
PL: Yeah, yeah 
LM: That’s cheeky isn’t it
PL: It is a bit cheeky, yeah
LM: Go back, go down back on (2.0) that’s better
?: Trust me to get this one [laughter] the, the awkward one
?: Yeah [laughs] (7.0)
PL: Got it (.) have I?
G: What, what would happen if somebody  
PL:   [laughs] It’s gone back to it again
G: If they had bad eyesight [laughter]
?: Do you want to go to the book store instead?
G: Can you get er
LM: I’m quite interested though what it’ll come up with. Does it ask anything about your musical tastes?
?: Yeah, you can get a little screen
?: Well you put some of your details in [laughter]
?: Can you enlarge the letters or the imprint?
PL: Yes, that’s one of the things that you can ask us to do here, although they’ve only just started to do that really
?: Right
PL: But they’re, what they’re trying to do, ‘cos (.) you see there’s quite a lot of information in a small space here
G: Yeah
?: That’s right
PL: And they’re working on putting less and making it clearer and bigger lettering
G: Yeah
PL: And stuff
G: Making it, bigger letters you know, rather than
LM: This is Microsoft, isn’t it
?: Oh
PL: Oh, is this Microsoft, is that one there, how did we get into that (5.0)
?: A mate of mine was doing a few drawings on a, on a computer and bust a magnifying glass
PL: Yeah
?: And you can magnify it right down to, could you use that facility on it yeah? Could you use that sort of thing on it?
PL: Well, I don’t think you can use
?: Or different words (…)
PL: That would be a good idea
?: (…) across?
PL: That would be a good idea, but I don’t think they can do that on this, it’s a good idea. Are we in there now? Right so we can
?: Summer tour guide
PL: Who do you want to hear about?
?: Erm [laughter] don’t know
?: (…) of L
?: Well, look, could we get into that? (…) [laughter]
PL: It’s just about, it’s just the CD’s that they are selling
?: Oh it said, summer tour guide
LM: It’s probably, because it’s the States, it wouldn’t
PL: Oh is it?
LM: It’s probably the States phone
?: Oh yeah
PL: Oh yeah, right
LM: I wouldn’t have thought it would be international
?: No (2.0)
G: How far is this coming from?
?: So (…)
PL: So you can work in a group
LM: Yeah, this company is based in the States, don’t know where in the States
G: Marvellous isn’t eh,
LM: Haven’t a clue
G: Marvellous (.)
?: And all, all by a telephone wire yeah (…)
?: You go, you go
PL: I don’t know, I don’t know
?: Go on, anyone?
PL: Oh, well I don’t know, well I’m not used to being in L, so I’m going to put the X in [laughter]
?: Nice one
LM: That’ll take ages to download the operation, it’s just like [laughter] yeah [laughter]
PL: [laughter] Hundreds of bootleg albums. So is it going? (3.0) Find it, OK, so you get this thing here saying you’re passing information so people could intercept that information on the web, and know that I want to find out about the X
?: Right (6.0)
PL: There we go.(.) So they’re the ones we want aren’t they, are they the ones?
?: (…)a few ordinary members of five million dollar music mania, one in five million [laughter] (…)
PL: Yeah (2.0) Well the thing, you know the, that personalised thing, one of the things that they want to do is, they get you to fill in information about yourselves and then they’ll give you different er offers and adverts as you get through
?: Yeah
PL: But at the moment, everyone gets the same
?: Yeah
PL: Yeah, but that’s, but that’s one thing that (…). Here we go, right so here’s all the X albums the places bar and then the dollar prices, quite a, quite a good (…)
?: Yes
PL: And er
?: There’s a lot of them aren’t there
?: How much is the Y now?
PL: Yeah how much is that, is that still for sale? [laughter]
?: Twenty-one
LM: About fifteen quid or so
PL: Where is that, can’t see it
?: X white
PL: Oh, yeah
?: Sixty-eight
PL: How much is that?
?: That’s twenty-one
PL: Twenty-one dollars (.) well that’s thirty percent off, that’s pretty good
?: Mmm (3.0) 
PL: My old LP’s all scratched
?: Mmm (.)
PL: So I’ve selected that one now and then it
?: Will it tell you what tracks are on it?
PL: Tell you what tracks are on it, yeah, and about the album, here we are
?: It’s nine, three minutes long (3.0)
PL: [laughs] Thirty percent off
?: Huh
PL: And here we can
?: We can play it?
PL: Yeah, shall we have a go?
?: Well [laughter] I mean is this (…) on the album
?: (…) play the song on this now
PL: Well I like Dear Prudence, that’s my
?: Yeah?
?: Yeah [laughter]
PL: That’s my favourite track
LM: We’ll have to turn the volume up a bit Pete
PL: Oh, will I oh it’s too quiet
LM: It was a bit quiet earlier (2.0)
?: Can you order me one now and I’ll pay weekly [laughter] You’ll have to give me your address and that (.)
PL: Now what it’s doing now, is it’s going to get to a different company who store all the sounds and it’s going to play it, I hope, OK so here we go. So it’s loading the, the sound
[Song plays]
?: (…) stereo with your friends and stuff
PL: What we’ve got here is um, this is just a mono
?: Yeah
PL: Sort of track that if you, this company that does the sounds, you can buy their software and then (…)
?: Yeah
PL: And video [Song continues playing] So you could, I mean we know this album, but you could sample albums that you didn’t know and listen to snatches. [Song stops] That’s it
?: So this is what it is, it’s not obviously, it’s not obviously all the album
PL: No
?: It’s just snatches (…)
G: Yeah snapshots
?: Yeah, brilliant, brilliant
PL: Not bad is it?
LM: It’s kind of like a listening booth in a way (…)
?: Yeah, yeah [laughs]
PL: (.) Yeah, that’s good. So that’s that one
?: Yeah
?: Very good
PL:  Shall we do another one? (…) What about Loot, shall we look at Loot?
?: Yeah (8.0)
?: Amazing (2.0)
PL: So this is Loot (…) This is Loot’s home page, so let’s have a go at finding this now (3.0) Ooh, that’s it, it’s got a path open on the Internet, Loot, the application, what? (…) That must mean they’re doing some work on the site, developing it or something (.) Oh, that’s a shame (.) let’s see what they’ve got in here (3.0) Oh, OK so there’s this property for sale through Loot (3.0) I didn’t know they did property (6.0) So again you can use a personal set-up to make it give you the kind of stuff that you want and change the (…) (5.0) Er (2.0) (…) I don’t know what it’s doing
G: One thing about it, it doesn’t tell you about, it doesn’t tell you who’s going to win the World Cup, does it? [laughter]
?: Yeah
PL: Who is going to win the World Cup then?
?: England
LM: Oh, it’ll be Germany [laughter]
G: I think it’s going to be 
?: Brazil
G: Brazil, yeah
?: Or Argentina have a good chance if they’re go through
?: Yeah if they beat England
?: Mmm [laughter]
G: No, they’ll have a tough one with  
?:   I think they’re going to win
G: I think Beckham will screw up myself
?: Ah very tasty offer
G: Tomorrow, I know
PL: Isn’t he a Manchester United player though?
G: Yeah
?: Boo [laughter]
G: I (…) United
?: Yeah
PL: Oh, OK (3.0) Er what else, let’s look at this one (.) MacSpotlight what’s that?
LM: That’s um, that’s an anti-MacDonalds website
PL: Oh right, yeah [laughter] Because of course the companies don’t own the web, so people who like 
LM: Anybody
PL: Anyone can
LM: Could set up a website about anything
PL: Can set up a web, it’s like, so this is the, these are the people who are campaigning against MacDonalds 
?: Veggies
LM: Mmm
PL: I don’t know, yes, some of them are veggies (.) and (.) but the, so this is what they’re doing, they’ve got a campaign, (…) , and they’ve got a libel trial [laughter]
LM: Yeah, (…) who were involved in that
PL: And there’s a debating room so people can come, you can type your own contribution (3.0)
G: You can get things on there what er don’t go on the television (…)
PL: Yeah
?: Find out everything, everything you’ve ever wanted to know
G: Yeah, yeah
?: You know (4.0)
PL: So that’s (.) that’s the (.) not bad is it, it’s almost as good as (…)
G: Yeah, yeah
PL: Pretty good. And then you can e-mail and comment
?: Yeah
PL: If you want to, I don’t know if we want to say anything at the moment but
?: To MacDonalds, you can (…)
PL: No, this is to the MacLibel 
?: Oh
PL: They’d probably pass it on to MacDonalds [laughter] (…)
G: How many Internet channels is there in there?
PL: Well the Internet’s um 
G: You know how many, I mean 
PL: Millions, you can get millions literally 
G: Yeah
PL: ‘Cos you can go from here, you can type in and search and get anywhere in the world
G: Good grief
PL: If you want (5.0) (…) the national parks, so that’s
G: Yeah
PL: So let’s (…) alright
?: So you can go to more or less any country now?
PL: Yeah
?: If you want, and any (.)
PL: Any, ‘cos we’ve been to America
?: So what would you find elsewhere, if you wanted, if you were going somewhere and you wanted to find out well how many shops, or what kind of shops they’ve got in the city centre or could you find out stores and stuff just like that?
PL: You can  
?:   Or would you have to know if it’s listed or
PL: Mmm, it depends, some, some cities have got websites and then within that
?: (…)
LM: But you can do searches so you could do that (…) New York and shops
PL: Yeah, right (.) that would be a long [laughs]
LM: It would be a big search to do it [laughs]
PL: They’re off four million, three hundred and fifty [laughter] (2.0) Oh right (2.0) OK and there’s one more I want to show you (3.0)
?: Have you both got computers? (.)
LM: I’ve got one at work
?: Have you. Not at home?
LM: No (.) saving up for a computer of my own [laughs]
?: Yeah (…)
LM: Do you think Compuserve?  
?:   What’ll that cost?
LM: Mmm?
?: How much will that cost?
LM: Well, one like, one like that would be great but I have to say
PL: Well they’re getting cheaper all the time though
LM: Well I’m waiting, biding my time [laughter]
?: Which is the best one? Best computer?
LM: Depends what want to do
?: Would you say, would you say the Sony? That’s a good one isn’t it?
PL: OK this is 
LM: I don’t know, don’t know anything about them
PL: Tesco’s
?: Mmm
G: Oh, Tesco’s
PL: Where you can order on, on, groceries or wine and then they deliver them to your door
G: Yeah
PL: So this is the, the site
?: Wow
PL: And then you can choose, what shall I choose (3.0) er off-licence [laughter] oh yeah champagne, no [laughter] (.) I’ll only need that tomorrow night
?: The prices have stopped moving
PL: Yeah, that’s right, so some lager, this lane is lager 
?: Mmm
PL: And then it lists oh [laughs] not got much
LM: What’s here?
PL: It says (…) I don’t like the sound of that
?: Oh right
PL: Lager special (…) oh there we are I’ve got it
?: Does it say the alcohol volume?
PL: Yeah, er (.), no it doesn’t does it (2.0)
?: No
PL: Just tells you, just lists the product  but there’s not much about the product here, this is just a list really 
?: Oh right
?: Be handy if we knew what the volume was, wouldn’t it
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: ‘Cos obviously you wouldn’t know what you were ordering would you?
PL: No that’s right
?: Especially if you hadn’t tried it
PL: Oh no, here they are look, I think it’s this isn’t it, five hundred mils per (…) centilitres that’s Kronenbourg. Let’s say we wanted that, Kronenbourg, small bottles, you double click on it (.) and it puts it in your shopping basket (.) and then you can go to the list and that’s, the shopping basket will have been building up, you’ve been going a bit mad [laughter] 
LM: I’ve got three (…) so far
PL: A hundred and eight, a hundred and nine pounds
?: So when you get home, you’ll have all your Kronenbourgs outside your door [laughter] (…)
?: Yeah
PL: Well, the thing about this now, we’re not on-line anymore,’cos we came off-line to, this doesn’t cost anything to do, you can build up your shopping list choosing, searching for things you want, choosing them
?: And place your order
PL: And then place your order, it just sends it down the line, it just takes a few seconds to order it and you can download and go, connect to Tesco’s and download the kind of prices
?: So it’d be direct debit?
PL: Yeah
?: They, you wouldn’t base it on any other way of paying?
PL: No
?: ‘Cos there would be a lot of 
PL: Oh right
?: (…) over there whose complaining about the kids playing football, or sort of like ordering 
PL: Yeah
?: Well they, they’d know there was something [laughter] and they get dumped on on the doorstep [laughter] wow, where is this one from, do you know what I mean?
?: No, no 
?: (…) in yours [laughter]
PL: Yeah, they have to have the credit card card, credit card or debit card, not direct debit, you, they, they don’t get that (…) at the centre and they check that, that they can get the payment before they
?: Mmm
PL: Deliver it, yeah, so it’s all done, it’s like ordering
?: Mail order sort of thing
PL: Yeah, or, or on the phone or whatever (8.0) Yeah, OK so what do you think?
?: Amazing
?: Yes, (…) what a capacity, ‘cos my brother-in-law’s got this big, massive thing and, and compared to that (…)
PL: Yeah, well, the tiny little, ‘cos we had to travel around to
?: Laptop computers type of thing, yeah
PL: That’s why we’re using that, but ordinarily you’d use the desk top one
?: Yeah, yeah
?: So like, obviously on the train, or something like that, you, you couldn’t get into the Internet
PL: Unless you had a mobile phone
?: Oh, you can plug it in to a mobile phone?
LM: This is becoming expensive [laughter]
?: Yeah
PL: Yeah, it would be very expensive [laughs]
?: I don’t know if Richard Branson gets his ideas together (.) it’s supposed, to be making it really, really cheap isn’t he?
?: Very cheap
PL: That’s right
LM: Oh really
?: Yeah I think he monopolised  a lot of it to be quite honest, he’s got to hasn’t he
PL: Well I think that’s right, ‘cos you’ve been mentioning the price, there’s the price of the computer and the price of being on-line, the price of the phone call
?: Mmm
PL: It’s quite expensive so (.) a real boost to it would be if they could get the cost down
?: A real deal what for Richard?
PL: Yeah, yeah 
?: Be good wouldn’t it
PL: (.) I think in America where it’s a lot cheaper to buy the computers and to be on-line, far more people have got them
?: Yeah
PL: Than, than here
LM: Yeah, it was like free local phone calls
PL: Yeah, right
LM: Then
?: Wow
LM: The Internet is free apart from a monthly subscription
?: Yeah, and is there nothing like that over here now?
PL: No
?: No, but like you say the more people get it, obviously the prices will
PL: (…) yeah well, BT are resisting free local phone calls, I don’t think they want [laughter]
LM: There were few cable companies originally, when there first started being kind of cable competition phones, there were a few cable companies that were offering that, but that was kind of before the Internet had got, now they’re never going to make any money out of it
?: Have you seen pound signs at the moment now (5.0)
PL: But erm, so what do you think the advantages of it would be, I mean, do you (4.0) do you think it’s useful for some people or
?: Yes it is
?: Everything, especially being that size I would think so, yeah
?: What you can do on it (3.0)
?: Could mean you don’t have to put your child through school, you could teach them yourself on the Internet, couldn’t you
?: Yeah
PL: That’s true
?: Surely if it was like an encyclopedia type stuff PL: Yeah, that’s right, you can get information about anything (.)
?: (…) so it’s a dictionary aswell?
PL: Oh yeah, yeah, it’s not just for shopping, you can find out about um, say your kid’s got a project at school, you can put the title of the project in and it’ll go and find the information 
?: So that’ll mean cheating for them, (…) [laughs] at school
?: Saves a lot of hard work
?: Like I said, like I said before about the surname, how many people have got the same surname and it can build it down
PL: That’s right (…)
?: Maybe (…) but they’ve got more press there, and they started in America something like ninety odd thousand and you’ll count about like thirty in the L area
PL: Yeah
?: (…) haven’t even sat down where you are like, you know, just at the tap of a button
?: (…) wouldn’t it
PL: Yeah
?: Even like maybe a doctor on the net or something
PL: Yeah, that’s right
?: Symptoms, of certain symptoms your child’s got whatever a fever or what it could be
PL: Yeah
?: Sort of , not, obviously not specific or nothing but (…)
?: Yeah, yeah (.)
PL: And what about, what about the shopping side of it, do you see any great advantages
?: Very good, yeah, it’s very good for shopping isn’t it, yeah
?: Providing you had the money I suppose
PL: Yeah
?: Providing you can afford to, you can use direct debit for the shopping (…)
?: Like you said the groceries and then get them delivered, there might be a limit to your, to your going outside, mightn’t you?
?: Mmm, mmm
G: Does it run on the battery that or is it plugged into 
PL: It’s running on battery, there’s a battery in there
G: Yeah
PL: But er
G: What sort of battery, is it er?
PL: Um
G: Small
PL: No, it’s, it goes in there, it’s about that long
G: Crikey
PL: It’s quite a big battery
?: Do Tesco or anyone like that charge you extra for using that way of shopping?
PL: Yeah, they charge you a delivery charge, only five pounds
?: Mmm, mmm
PL: Delivery charge
?: Mmm
PL: And they’re not, they’re not making any money off it, I mean they must be making a loss on the
?: Yeah
PL: Because they have to have a delivery van, someone to drive it, there’s someone in the store who actually does the shop for you 
?: For you
?: That’s right, yeah
G: Can I ask a, which is the biggest shop you know? Is Tesco’s the biggest?
PL: Tesco’s and Sainsbury’s are the, are the big national (…)
G: Yeah
PL: Companies like Marks and Spencers’ haven’t got to pay yet, although they’re
G: What about Morrisseys, or are they only small?
PL: They’re smaller aren’t they nationally
G: Yeah, yeah
PL: But, I suppose they’ll have to get on because the others are doing it
G: Yeah
PL: They’ll have to
?: I think there’d be a certain amount of prestige to it now if you sort of said, I’ve done my shopping on the net like
LM: Mmm
?: Yeah
?: Yeah, right (…) [laughter]
PL: And the bag’s got it written on [laughter]
?: Yeah, yeah (…)
?: And these guys carrying their cans of lager, you know [laughter] yeah
PL: And what about other things like, you can, you see we went to that huge CD store in America, but you could go, you can shop anywhere in the world
?: (…) in town type thing
PL: Yeah, yeah, but on the Internet you can, there’s a thing called a search engine where you can say ‘I want to buy a CD, X Y’ say, and it will search the whole world for you and find the cheapest deal and then report back to you and say yeah, it’s cheaper, we did it once when it said, you can buy it in Holland, you know this LP and it’s like the equivalent of a fiver 
G: Well that one give you thirty percent off when you got through didn’t it
?: Oh that one did yeah, that was
?: Yeah
PL: That was proportionate on that album [laughter]. So that’s, that’s, that would lie, that’s like a little program that will run around the world as it were, trying different sites for you until it gets the cheapest deal
G: Does it cost a lot to run it?
PL: No
?: You’re saying there’s batteries
PL: Oh no it’s rechargeable
?: It’s rechargeable
PL: Yeah, as soon as you plug it in
?: Mmm
?: Via your phone line
PL: No, er, er, electric (.) socket, as soon as you plug
?: Oh right, yeah
PL: Plug the mains in
LM: Yeah I mean I was
PL: It just recharges
LM: Using it all day and it was
?: So should you power charge it
LM: It was charging up 
?: Yeah, yeah
LM: And now it’s got about five hours running time
?: So if your power fails while you still got your
PL: Yeah, that’s right (…)
G: So eventually all the kids’ll have all that [laughs]
PL: I think when, when the price comes down yeah
G: Yeah
PL: But that’s way into the future I think
G: Oh right yeah
?: I think you’d be surprised how many kids have got it now
PL: Whatever in the home you mean
?: Yeah, I mean like er who are on the Internet
LM: Mmm
?: If your Mum and Dad have got a few bob and
PL: Mmm, mmm. Is the next generation going to grow up with it more 
?: Definitely
?: I suppose
?: Definitely, they must have to (2.0) and even like collectable CD’s
PL: Mmm, yeah
?: People who’ve maybe placed and ad, look I’ve got this for sale, this is worth
?: Mmm
PL: Yeah
?: (…) instead of just finding it for you
PL: Some of them will
?: (…) the best deal
PL: Yeah, right, some of them will just go to shops that they know like pop shops but
?: So not personal like
PL: Not personal
?: Like um I’ve got this for sale sort of thing
PL: No, no, they wouldn’t necessarily, but some might
?: Mmm
PL: But of course that would take longer to do the search ‘cos you have to search through everyone’s individual websites
?: Yeah, yeah, ‘cos there’s that many, yeah, it’s not just one
PL: Millions of people all over the world will, will be on (.) so
?: I suppose that Loot would be the closest thing, probably
PL: Mmm
LM: Mmm
?: Without collectable CD’s, just stuff you can look up or
PL: You, you can go on line in Loot and, and put your advert in, ‘cos you know it’s free to place an advert in Loot, so you can just do it on, on the Internet, you just type your advert
?: Mmm
PL: Oh I’ve got (…)or whatever
?: I know a guy who (…)
PL: Yeah, and then you can place the ad
G: Oh right, they’ve got the shops haven’t they? Loot have
PL: Have they?
G: Yeah, (…) you know like take your goods 
PL: Oh right
G: And get cash for it
?: Like a cash converter type 
G: (…) cash converter
?: I’m not sure, I’m not sure
PL: There is, there is a chain but I don’t think they’re on the net though
G: No, they’re not on the net, no (3.0)
PL: OK, do you think there’s, are there any issues around this um shopping over the net, that say the government should be concerned about? Are there any, should they be regulating it?
?: (…)
PL: Sorry?
?: Aren’t they regulating it now?
PL: Well, not much (.) It’s a sort of fast developing service 
?: So Mum and Dad’s out and they order a bottle of Scotch (…) one fourteen and it gets delivered at one today, it’s, it’s Andrew’s Mum and Dad’s car getting used, they’re not going to be, (…) are they maybe or stuff like that or
PL: Right so licensed goods and people being underage, you couldn’t necessarily, I mean the only 
?: It would be so easy to order though, wouldn’t it?
PL: Yeah, (3.0) I don’t know how they could, what they can do about that
G: I bet you can get chat shows aswell can’t you?
?: Yeah
G: Free (…)
PL: Yeah, yeah, you can, you can connect up to groups of people who are discussing, I mean the, see on the MacLibel, the MacDonalds thing
G: Yeah
PL: They have a chat, they call them forums 
G: Really
PL: [coughs] And the people all talk about the product. One of the things that you can get, for example on the book er er company, you, you get reviews, people who’ve read the book will write a review and then that’s on the site, so you can check what other people think of the product
?: Mmm, mmm
G: I think (…) computers are better than the big ones. How heavy are they, I’ve never tried it
PL: Yes, it’s portable 
G: (…)
?: Probably (…) or something
G: Well, you should tell more than them. ‘Cos they’re about same price aren’t they?
PL: Well, I think they’re a bit more actually
LM: (…) more of a specialty
G: Yeah
LM: About twice as expensive
?: Did you say this would be about, be about a couple of thousand pounds for this particular model
PL: Yeah
LM: Yeah
?: Which is not available here yet, but will be
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: Oh that is yeah, oh right
G: Who makes them, is it um?
?: Dell (…)
PL: That’s a Dell one
G: Oh right
PL: They’re an American company, but they just, they don’t make computers, they just
?: You don’t necessarily need the laptop do you, to be on the Internet? You can actually have a big monitor and stuff
PL: Yeah
LM: Most of the standard like PC packages like sort of eight hundred to a thousand (…) memory, that we didn’t access, but they’re perfectly suitable (…)
PL: Usually they are selling them without (…)
LM: Do they?
PL: Yeah, but the key thing is the modem you’ve got to have some machine that connects you and that’s in here I think
LM: Yeah
PL: Whoops, there it is, anyway, there it is, so that’s, that’s the modem, that’s communicates between the computer and the telephone line
G: Oh
?: Must be worth a lot of money that
PL: No it’s not that, that much, that one
?: Mmm
LM: Well to buy the modem on it’s own would be about seventy quid
PL: Yeah
?: Yeah (3.0)
?: And you need the modem obviously
PL: This one’s a bit out of date now [laughs]
?: And would, would any terminal be able to use that, just like that (…)
PL: No
?: So you’d have to buy a computer that could
PL: Yeah
?: Accept the phone line
PL: Yeah (.) well, you, different modems would work with different computers, so, but when they sell you a computer with a modem, they make sure it’s compatible
?: Yeah
PL: You [laughter] not always (.) So who do you think’s going to make most use of this shopping over the net? Is it going to be widespread or is it going to be particular groups of people or ?: Groups (…) [laughter]
?: People who work long hours, maybe doctors
PL: Yeah, (…) professional
?: (…)
PL: Mainly professionals, do you think that’s primarily because of the cost that at the moment
?: No probably a thing like, type of thing like the hours involved type of thing (…) you know type of thing (…) mainly professionals like, doctors and such, solicitors 
G: I think it would be very good for the doctors that, (…) get straight into it and find out the symptoms what people you know
PL: Mmm. My doctor uses it already, I mean
?: I was going to say, (…) a big massive filing cabinet system like, everything’s all on one screen and you just want to tap up
PL: Or you can get, you can get information about products, so if he’s been thinking about um what drugs to prescribe he can go and find out what the latest
?: Right
PL: Products
?: Are they actually on the Internet now, drugs
PL: Yeah
G: Ay (3.0)
LM: So he’s just using the same information that’s available to everyone else
?: Yeah (…) [laughter]
PL: But he says he knows how to interpret it [laughter] And my symptoms of course [laughs] Alright (…) Now one of the things that, that, that they do when you, when you’re on line mail, we, you know we just went on-line and we went to cetain websites
?: Yeah
PL: One of the things that they can do is that they, they, because you’re, the connect, communication between you and them is two way, they’re selling you stuff and you’re selling them stuff, they can actually load information on your computer, they can actually come on to your computer aswell, and read your hard disk, read what information’s on your 
?: Stuff (…) or something or
?: Like (…) type of thing, you can do that?
PL: Yeah, yeah
?: Oh right
PL: Now one of the things that they can do is that like, you know when we went to the, the CD Now site, CD site what that would have done is left a trace of what albums we looked at
?: Mmm
PL: So then another company, when you go on another company’s website, they could then read that and they could say ‘Ah, right he liked those kind of records’
?: Yeah
PL: Um, they could then add more information to it, so that a profile of you would build up
?: Would anybody have access to do that? Could I look through your er
PL: If you knew how to do it, technically, yeah, yeah
?: Yeah
PL: It’s quite difficult to do it, I can’t do it
?: Maybe there should be a block on that aswell though, maybe
PL: Do you think so?
?: I don’t know (2.0) Maybe someone will want to know what, what you’re into [laughter] they might not be going to help you like but [laughter] I don’t know (…)
?: (…) buy, to buy software (…) [laughter]
G: If you’ve drugs on that, types of drugs
?: Yeah, so none of us (…) [laughter]
G: Could they tell you that they’re killers, all of them killers (…)
PL: Well, there’s a variety of opinion about that so you can find all those opinions reflected on the
G: Yeah
PL: On the web, I think
G: Yeah
PL: But yeah, you were saying it’s the privacy 
?: That’s right, yeah
PL: It’s, what do you think, is it an invasion of privacy or does it matter?
?: It does if you don’t really want to
?: Especially, like you said everyone can take something from a disk and you’ve got some really personal stuff there and someone can just pick upon it like you know
?: Yeah
?: I suppose, unless like you’d need a key number to enter that sort of thing you know [laughter]
PL: But there’s not much they can do with it
?: (…) there’s no problems caused is there?
LM: But what about if it’s just shops I mean like you know if it’s Boots website and they find out that you’re (…) like what are they going to do about it?
?: Yeah
LM: Is it just about privacy?
?: But I mean anyone (…) say if I knew you 
LM: Yeah
?: I knew you were on the Internet
LM: You could blackmail me [laughs]
?: (…) or blackmail you [laughter] I could, technically I could look to see what you’re into and I could say ‘Oh, well Liz has been ordering this’ or she’s ordered that or
LM: Yeah
?: Yeah
?: And you might not want people to know, could be anything
LM: Yeah
PL: Because at the moment, you can walk into a   
?:   Couldn’t I?
LM: You could
?: (…) the bank account you got like, you know so
PL: Yeah, right, but at the moment you can walk into a shop, you’re anonymous and you know, it’s like a public place you can, (.) are there?
?: I think that could be a drawback, it would for me anyway because I’m slightly self-conscious and I do all my shopping from the Loot, the bargain basement and then everyone could find out about it like [laughs] I wouldn’t be too pleased
PL: But one of the things that they’re also thinking about is that once they’ve got more information, you see that, do you remember that thing we got into where it says personalising, that’s one of the big things that they’re hoping to develop, that they’d be able to particularly like for promotions and advertising, that they’d be able to personalise it, they’d know something about you as an individual
?: Yeah, yeah
PL: And they’d, now that would mean, at the moment for example an offer is an offer, you know like it’s ten pence off coffee, anyone who goes in and wants to buy that can get that off, but this way they could actually offer, make offers specific to particular individuals and they
?: Yeah
PL: Could reward particular shoppers (2.0)
?: Be great [laughter]
?: Yeah
?: (…) getting lager for ten pence a bottle [laughter] (…) [laughter]
G: You could find out what’s coming on er, in the shops, you know
PL: Mmm, yes, you could
G: New things like, you know
PL: Well that’s right, you can, you can find out, ‘cos at the moment 
G: Yeah
PL: People are quite, I don’t know what you guys are like in your shopping but 
G: Yeah
PL: People can be quite habitual about shopping, buy the same thing, so they could, that’s another thing they could do, they could, ‘cos they could store the information about important shops, and then they could say ‘Ah right, they’re always buying the same thing, let’s see if we can offer them something, persuade them to try something else
?: (…) this is a new brand, maybe
PL: Yeah, right (…)
LM: Say if you buy a load of Stella, then they could say ‘Well, we going to market a new you know continental
?: Yeah (…) cheap lager
LM: (…) and we know you’ll like it, you know
?: Yeah, yeah
PL: So do you think, is this a good thing?
?: Yeah
G: I think it is, yeah, definitely, yeah
?: Could you order stuff from Amsterdam? [laughter]
PL: I think you can actually, already, yeah 
?: Wow, there’d be trouble getting it in though wouldn’t there maybe [laughter]
PL: Well now that’s, that’s, actually that’s an interesting issue ‘cos the, the um
?: Delivery on the (…) like [laughter]
PL: That’s right. Because the Customs and Excise are slightly worried about all this, because, exactly, we’ll be able to order 
?: Hash?
PL: Yeah and, and have it sent to us, but now, at the moment they, at the moment they check randomly mail particularly from Amsterdam [laughter] you know, but you could order it from Columbia [laughter] and that might be more difficult for them to track what’s going on obviously if there’s an increase in the volume aswell, people start shopping outside (…) they won’t have the manpower to, to check it
?: So that’s only random checks, sort of thing, about the majority of the Amsterdam 
PL: [laughs] I don’t know
?: Or is (…) checked, probably would be
LM: It would make sense (…) foreign country [laughs]
?: Yeah (…)
G: (…) I think, the Internet
PL: Oh yes, yes, yes that was on, that was on, you could, that’s another thing they can do, they can actually put cameras in places
G: Yeah
PL: And then you can um connect the camera to the Internet, so you can actually see what’s going on
G: Mmm
PL: If you’ve got the software to do it, so (…) put that on the Internet (2.0) So, where do you think this is all leading, is it?
?: I think it’s just straight to the future isn’t it, I think most people’ll have one in ten years
G: Oh, ay eventually, yes
?: (…) now everyone’s got one and now
LM: Mmm
?: Mmm
G: But they’ll have to come down in price won’t they?
?: More people would buy them if it was down, more people would buy them
?: Mmm, mmm
G: (…) down in price
PL: Well they are coming down in price
?: Yeah
PL: Quite, quite fast (…)
G: When it gets to about a tenner, then I’ll buy one [laughs]
PL: Well it might not, it might not need to get to a tenner ‘cos one of the things like, will be like when they do get digital television
?: Yeah
PL: They’ll be connected through the net, through cable and then there won’t be the same sort of charges to it
?: Yeah (…)
G: Eventually you’ll be able to get smaller ones aswell won’t you? Aswell?
PL: Yeah, you can already, (…)
G: But they don’t work [laughter] (…)
G: The Japanese are doing them now aren’t they, at the moment (3.0)
PL: So um, do you think it’s going to be good for particular kinds of shopping and not good for others or we’ve not talked about some things but like the 
?: Regarding exercise, um getting out and actually doing a bit
PL: Well right, right
?: Or socialising, like people go to socialise aswell as usually just go to the shops or that could cut a lot of everyday life out
PL: Yeah
G: I think it’s a good idea for
?: I don’t think it’s going to be very good for  G: Getting in touch with people you know
PL: That’s true, you can actually get in touch with people through the Internet
G: Yeah, yeah
?: I don’t think it’s going to be very good for shopping for like fresh meat or anything, (…)
PL: Right
?: ‘Cos you can’t see it 
PL: Right, right
?: (…) [laughter] the fat, look at the fat on that [laughter]
PL: Well I think actually you can specify on your order, so you can say whether you want it lean or fat
G: Yeah (3.0)
?: Everyone’s doing it
G: But people that are say lonely, they can get in touch with somebody what’s lonely aswell
?: Yeah, that’s brilliant, yeah
?: Help them sort of thing
G: Yeah, I think it’s a great thing
?: Yeah, it is
G: Honestly, it’s a great idea (4.0) Saves you signing on aswell [laughter]
?: Signing on through the Internet
?: (…) the number of zero’s to be checked
G: It’s brilliant
PL: Actually, yeah, that’s a good idea, no I don’t think they’ll do that will they?
G: No [laughter] (…)
LM: (…) some money though wouldn’t it?
?: I am actively seeking work 
LM: Click [laughter]
?: Yeah, click [laughter] (…) order another pizza [laughter]
G: I think it’s an excellent idea (.) for people what can afford it you know
?: Yeah (.)
?: What would be like the cheapest laptop type computer cost, you say that’s one to two thousand
PL: Well, what happens with
LM: The cheapest way would be to probably buy it second-hand
PL: You know, up to
LM: Naturally, like laptop (…) if you can buy one that’s a few years old, but then they’re not so fast and they don’t have so much memory (…)
?: Yeah
LM: CD player (…) games, dictionary, whatever, you know
?: Yeah
?: Is it guaranteed? Yeah, if you were to drop it on the floor?
PL: Oh yeah, well
LM: Is it guaranteed if you drop it on the floor? [laughs]
PL: Yeah, run it over [laughter]
?: (…) yeah, accidental [laughter]
?: Insurance cover maybe
?: (…)
G: This is broken [laughs]
?: I suppose you could insure it couldn’t you, on the household insurance for accidental damage, just like anything
?: Yeah
?: So if you dropped it (…) yeah, you’d have to wouldn’t you
PL: You’d have to pay I think, you’d have to pay extra
G: But er some of these big shops have apparently got them already, have they? You know like er supermarkets and that
PL: Oh yeah, they all, Sainsbury’s and Tesco are already 
G: Yeah
PL: Doing it deliberately
G: Yeah
PL: Try, they’re testing it out
G: Ay, probably, Iceland are doing it and all
PL: Iceland do er that’s fax (…) fax or phones
?: Mmm
PL: And then they’ll deliver, so do you think home delivery’s going to increase, that’s going to be a 
G: (…) you can get in touch with them and say I want this and I want, you know 
?: I mean why go out travelling somewhere
G: Saves you from going there doesn’t it?
?: For the sake of five pounds seventy, eighty you know
G: The train, get on the train
LM: Especially if you have to pay to get like there and back anyway
?: Exactly right yeah
?: So it’s a question of taxi fares or whatever fares
G: Oh ay
?: It’s brought to you
PL: What about, we’ve talked about companies that we know most of the time, and you know going on-line which I think a lot of them will, but what about new companies that might develop like let’s say a new supermarket will develop
?: Mmm
PL: They won’t have any shops, they’ll just have a big warehouse outside L
?: That’s it
PL: And then delivery, because they’ve got no investment in shops
?: Yeah
PL: They’ll be able to keep the prices down
?: Yeah
PL: Do you think that, that’s a possibility 
?: Yeah, definitely, yeah
PL: Because like the CD Now and the, and the bookshop were not, they were never record stores or a bookshop, they just developed on the net (.) what would you feel about that you know
?: Yes
PL: The supermarkets that we know 
G: You mean
PL: Compared to one that was a new net market or whatever it’s called
G: Is there going to be a shop near you like, you know?
PL: Well they won’t have any shops
G: On your doorstep, you know (…)
?: I think it’d be a good idea, especially if they kept the cost down, you know if you’re able to use the net, there’s no need to see the stuff that you’re going to buy anyway, you know
PL: Right, right
G: But is there going to be an Asda put up on there?
PL: I don’t know
G: Be good if that were true wouldn’t it, on there
PL: You might be able to get into the planning
G: Yeah, yeah
PL: Department, the L planning department [laughs]
?: And see what’s going on yeah
?: I suppose like you wouldn’t need checkout girls or ‘cos (…)
PL: (…) stocking shelves yeah. Labour costs would be a lot less wouldn’t they
?: Mmm
PL: And then the actual sites too wouldn’t, there’s the cost of the building isn’t there
?: Oh, I see yeah
?: I suppose if you order something, to deliver it sort of the same day yeah, how about they make it twenty-four hour shopping and delivery?
PL: Yeah
?: I think that’ll be soon isn’t it I suppose
PL: Yeah
?: You looking at the States and Australia and places like that or wherever else in the world are doing it and they’ve got twenty-four hour stores and stuff like that
PL: Yeah
LM: Yeah, but I mean you can order from Tesco at any time, and it’s delivered between like seven in the morning and what’s the last time of delivery?
PL: Er eight o’clock I think at night at the moment, but they’ll probably extend that, but you can choose the time you want it delivered 
LM: Mmm ?: Can you?
PL: And say ‘Next Thursday at five, between five and six’ and then they deliver then
?: I suppose the more efficient you get, then the more vans and stuff and whatever, it’d be providing jobs aswell wouldn’t it?
G: So eventually all
?: (…) if somebody wants to work nights and deliver, be good (…) whatever
LM: Yeah, yeah
G: Bet there’s quite a lot of countries do that, all night shopping
?: Yeah, there must be yeah
PL: I think it’s (.) well that’s, that’s developing here and I
LM: There’s quite a lot of stores in London anyway
PL: Have you got that, is that happening in L now?
?: Not really, no
PL: Have you got twenty-four hour supermarkets now?
LM: That’s Friday and Saturday nights [laughs] (…)
PL: But this is like
LM: Sainsbury’s
PL: Sainsbury’s, Tesco, Safeway, they’re all, they’re all doing it
?: Yeah, in London?
?: Yeah, that’s right, they are (…)
LM: It’s only about a couple of nights a week
PL: Friday or Saturday night 
LM: Friday or Saturday usually
PL: There’s one near me that’s open every ooh everyday
LM: Everyday, twenty-four hours
PL: Yeah twenty-four hours (…)
?: Whereabouts do you come from in London?
PL: In North London, in um er, what’s it called, Haringey
?: Haringey, mmm (3.0)
PL: Right, got any, have we covered it?
LM: I think that’s about it [laughter] I think that just about covers it
?: Brilliant, well it’s definitely influenced me now to want to get [laughter] a computer
G: Going to get one are you?
LM: I know
?: (…) this useless big massive thing , I do all this keyboard (…) but with a little teeny thing like that
LM: It’s just choosing the right time to spend your money (…) how long to leave it before it goes down
?: Yeah
?: Yeah
?: So what’d be the cheapest laptop, I know you said that’s two thousand and it’d be cheaper to get
LM: Second-hand would be cheaper
G: They’re coming down
LM: I don’t know, I don’t know what the starting price is for laptops so, what would you say is the cheapest you could get like a laptop that would have enough memory and power to run the Internet network? I don’t really know
PL: About (…) [laughter]
LM: Nine hundred thousand [laughter] That’s really way out of (…)
PL: Sorry
LM: About a thousand pounds? ‘Cos like
PL: Yeah
?: That’s er pretty good isn’t it
LM: That’s pretty good, ‘cos like desk, desktops are about a thousand pounds still aren’t they?
PL: No, you can get a standard desktop for about six hundred, six fifty now
LM: Really?
PL: Yeah
?: And you know like the CD um
PL: This has got CD in it
?: We’re going to buy a CD player and the actual eye, you see the eye in it, you know the laser
PL: Yeah
?: It’s only guaranteed for so many like hundred thousand hours and then the eye will wear out (…) like you say you’ve got that thing on the screen to save it
PL: That’s the eye, yeah
?: Is there a life expectancy? Sort of do you know what I mean?
LM: Yeah, I don’t really know
?: Will it last ten years or?
G: Marvellous isn’t it
?: Is that the CD yeah?
PL: Yeah, it’s good (.)
LM: Yeah, no I don’t know really which parts, I mean the danger’s more like the kind of, that you’d just, the kind of way the software will develop you’ll kind of need more power to run more and more (…) applications, so what you’ll really want has got to be to add on memory
?: Yeah
LM: That you can spend fifty quid and get double your memory size
PL: It’s not, it’s not, you can’t really, you know, it’s not, it’s not (…)
?: Build up on it, yeah
?: I think if I got a computer I’d need something more (…)
PL: Exactly
?: I’d have to get (…) facilities, how to operate it to a certain degree
LM: Yeah
PL: I think these are of limited use because you can’t, they’re too heavy to cart around and you can’t like I, I cycle to work (…)
?: Or up through the net, one of your mates (…)
LM: Yeah, or just (…) somebody who knows what they’re talking about ‘cos I don’t really know what I’m talking about but people who do, do
?: Yeah, to know what you’re talking about
G: I want to know [laughs]
?: What course are you doing like, what is it?
LM: It’s, well it’s full time research (…) we’re doing it as part of a wider project about 

Focus group 15, 11.08.98, ABC1, Mixed

C, 26; J, 30; A, 27; I, 24; S, 24

LM: Okay, well basically, some of you might know that I’m some research on electronic commerce (.) um so I wanted to get a few of you together who use the internet reasonably regularly um to show you some shopping sites (.) you may have looked at some already, um and just to see what you think of them really. Um, so I wonder if we could just start by going around and introducing ourselves and saying (.) how often you use the net and what you use it for (1.0) maybe talk a little bit about when you first starting using computers, sort of general attitudes. Do you want to start
C: Okay, um (2.5) I generally use the net well for research purposes mainly looking up sites of interest to do with my, my research on vision and looking up people as well in terms um I mean, I’ll be looking for jobs for about a year’s time so I have just been trying to find out what other people are doing (1.5) and it has been useful for conferences as well actually um (.) checking out the sites, finding, booking hotels. I also use the internet quite a lot for fun, sort of like (…) and looking up funny pages and stuff. I wouldn’t call myself a serious surfer, cause I don’t think that there is very much direction in my surfing, I kind of stumble along rather than (…) surf
LM: Okay. What are your favourite sites then?
C: Um (1.5) My favourite sites (.) are I actually spent an awful lot of time last year on the Diana site reading all the trivias that was you know, they were very touching [laughs]
LM: [laughs]
C: Um (2.0) what else? I have looked at internet romance sites and dating things and stuff, they are very, very interesting
LM: Oh, really
C: Yeah, and what else? Yeah, I suppose that sort of site is kind of the one, the one that I liked where people are writing down things and you can sort of get a little glimpse into somebody else, you know, somebody else’s, sort of put down on paper you can’t quite believe what (…) electronic (…)
LM: Have you been on any chat rooms or anything like that?
C: No, I don’t, I don’t think you actually, I’ve only really used um university computers. I did have, I was linked up at home at one point and um my flat mate used to go to chat rooms all the times, but I was not really very interested, mainly because the telephone bill was massive [laughs] as a result
LM: Okay, thanks
Cl: I suppose I use the internet er for three main purposes. The first obviously for work, downloading papers and things like that. Second er for general information, train timetables (1.0) sports information (1.5) and the third and more specifically has been in the last year looking for jobs
LM: Right (1.0) okay. So how often do you go online?
Cl: Every day really, but not for each of those things obviously. I expect there’s probably one or two pages I check every day (1.5)
LM: What would they be?
Cl: Er Arsenal football club
LM: Aha [laughs]
J: And er that’s it really
LM: [laughs] Okay (2.0)
J: I started, it was the Guardian web page, er RecruitNet
LM: Yeah
J: But that was, er, I think twice a week (…)
LM: And how long have you been using the net would you say?
Cl: Er since I started my PhD, so four years, three or four years
LM: Okay, right
A: Again for research, um there are a lot of people who I’m in contact with on um group lists (…) hyper text links, and then I follow those up, so they could be anything environmental, lots of (…) pages, um (1.5) things that the net’s database has got all the (…) information for the country on their website and it’s updated daily, so I would look at that um (2.0) and things like timetables for train times, um (2.0) just sort of odds, odds and e
nds really, bits and pieces, er science fiction stuff and (2.0) information for other people, people like my parents who don’t have Internet access um (2.0) um a range of stuff. I wouldn’t say that I have particular favourite site
LM: Okay. Do you have regular bookmarks?
A: Yes, a huge list
LM: So what sort of thing’s on there then?
A: Mainly things to do with research, things that I go back to, to do with environmental pollution (…) and um, the Friends of the Earth have a  good website which has chemical release inventory on it and mainly research things
LM: Okay (1.0) Owen?
I: Yeah um mainly use it for searching for a job
LM: Okay
I: So that’s the main use at the moment, otherwise it is recreational news really and newspapers and sports pages and er (…) never been seriously sort of, very serious use (…)
LM: Okay
S: Um well I use it for research purposes. Um, I, I look at the moment I am going to America in a couple of weeks, so um I look up the university I am going to so that I know what is on there and where I have to go and everything. I have used it to look up the American Embassy, I have even found my bank through it in America. My American bank, so that was good. Um, I would read the newspaper, I read the Press Association pages every day in the morning (1.5) um I like the Dilbert Zone for a bit of light relief and then, so generally I stick with like the newspapers, light relief stuff um and work stuff. Um, let me think, um I sort of look at the train timetables, information stuff and I also get information for other people if they can’t find it
LM: Yeah, okay
S: Um (2.0) oh and also Loot, for looking up flats and stuff like that, but not generally for things, mainly for flats
LM: Okay, and are you quite habitual, I mean is it sort of, you know, you say about reading it every morning?
S: Yes, as soon as I get in I read the headlines (2.0) 
LM: And can you go on- and offline sort of throughout the day?
S: Yeah, yeah
LM: Yeah? Is that the same for everyone else who accesses it from the University?
?: At least once a day, every day
?: Every morning
LM: Right
A: And it depends on how long it takes to load up
?: Yeah
A: So I plan when I am going to do it, and then that will be it for the day and not every day
LM: Okay
C: I generally use our office computer and there’s, there is only one computer out of two that works um properly on the Internet, and generally you have to wait for it so it’s not really you know, it’s not really something that you can spend an awful lot of time on, cause someone’s generally waiting for the (1.0) computer (…) late at night [laughs]
LM: (…)
C: Yeah, so (…)
LM: Um, and have any of you heard anything about electronic commerce, various forms of shopping on the internet?
C: Um I’ve heard that it exists, but I don’t really know anything... Actually, I did hear that it was possible to go through a virtual supermarket or something like that, um it was invented so that it was more like a supermarket experience than this sort of clicking on button and saying, you know, saying I want beans or I want (…) or whatever
LM: Yeah
C: (…) but haven’t examined it at all
LM: Anybody else?
(1.0)
J: Yeah well I am actually involved in a company that we’re setting up (1.0) I am on the technical side to it, but it (…)
LM: Right, and have you looked at other um (.) sort of commercial sites?
J: Yeah well, we have yeah, just to see how they (…)
LM: Right
J: There’s a lot of rubbish, actually, it has to be said
LM: Sure
J: (…) the key thing is to keep it simple (2.0)
LM: Okay (2.0) Has anybody else heard anything about e-commerce?
(1.5)
S: Um there’s um sometimes on the cartoon sites there are like little stores that sell kind of merchandise that goes with it, so I have looked at those but I have never bought anything, and then obviously I’ve, I er applied for my bank account and everything and you can run your bank account through the Inter, through the net, but considering that I won’t have access all the time I (…) stick with the er (…)
LM: Okay
?: I think that Barclays have set that up, haven’t they in the UK now?
LM: Mmm, yeah
(2.0) 
LM: So what would be your first kind of thoughts about (1.0) being able to shop over the internet? What would you expect it to be like, is it something that appeals? (1.0) Um (2.0) What would be your first
C: I think um, I think that there would probably be certain things at the moment that I would be confident about buying over the internet, mainly because um (1.0) I mean you don’t trust, well (…) it seems as if it’s very well regulated or something well established, you don’t really know whether something might not just be acquiring your, you know, your pin number from your card or something or taking your money and your cheque and disappearing with it
LM: Mmm
C: You know (1.5) um and in those terms I, I wouldn’t be too comfortable about it. But I just, I suppose thinking about it it’s not that much different from buying something from a magazine (1.0) Computers can be bought from magazines, and sort of, (…) order CDs and books and things all the time
LM: Mmm
C: It’s just um, I think um (1.0) you know the internet is slightly different because you can be in any country at all, you could be anything, advertising yourself in (1.0) you know, saying that I am selling this and there is no way that it could be possible for you to catch up with someone, so, it just seems slightly riskier
LM: Mmm
J: There might be mixed feelings about it, er, I think um, I think that there is a lot of hype associated with the internet, particularly in terms of er (1.5) you know, in terms of selling things, um, my person opinion is that I think that it would be one (…) as part of a broader consumption experience. I don’t think we’ll ever get rid of the idea of going to the shops. And I think possibly that the internet might be used um to buy um bulk commodities (…) baked beans things like that, but I don’t think it will replace the consumption experience
(2.0)
?: Um I think I am more concerned with security, because every time you try and transmit information you get these little warnings saying ‘do not send anything that you don’t want to be kept secret’, so when it comes to sending things out like my Access card number I would be a bit reluctant to and (1.0) I don’t know how (1.5) how it could be made safer, or (2.0) I don’t know, I’m a bit reluctant at the moment
LM: Has anyone heard anything about kind of security (1.0) on the net? I mean, have you seen any media coverage?
?: It’s not very good, from what I’ve heard
(2.0)
S: And then when you look at things sometimes they say ‘don’t worry, we know you’ve heard about all these problems um, you know, on the net, but ours is particularly secure because...’ blah, blah
C: Yeah
S: And you don’t know, you don’t really know what they mean
A: I logged on at, I’ve got a setup thing for the Internet at home and when I have been trying out various companies, and Microsoft have this thing where you can get an encrypted password or something which will (1.5) secure, I didn’t really understand it properly, but it will make things more secure (2.0) for sending information
C: And some things actually that I have, I did actually book accommodation for a recent um conference over, over the internet, and they were saying don’t send your, you know, don’t email your particulars (…) your number, either post it to us or do it some other way, so we had to, so in fact we had to, I know, I had to email the two things separately at different times or something
LM: Oh right, okay
C: So (2.5) so I suppose the fact that they felt that was necessary, you know, suggests that it’s generally not (…) buy things
LM: Yeah
C: And actually thinking about it when you do buy things from magazines generally they say  something like um (1.0) you know, ‘send no money now’, you know, get your product and then you pay the money. Well with the internet it seems to be, you know, you give your, you know, you send them the money and then you get the product 
LM:  Yeah
C: And that seems like, a bit of a strange way round, but if actually, thinking about it I can’t really think of many other shopping methods where you do that. I mean, if you go into a shop you know, your, the exchange is immediate (2.5) If you’re buying from a magazine you get the products and then you pay (1.0) but if you, it means that you pay and then you’re waiting [laughs] for whatever it is to arrive
(1.0)
S: And also with magazines, you know that there are certain, there are those things aren’t there, like the Advertising Standards thing 
C:  Yeah
S: …which has various, you know the things, you’re aware of these safeguards, whereas, there might be them on the net, but we’re not aware of the, the groups that do them, if they do do them indeed, I don’t think that, they might not even do it, but we’re not aware of these regulatory bodies, so it is scary [laughs]
(2.0)
LM: Okay. Have any of you um sort of researched anything that you bought via the net? I mean I take it that none of you have actually bought anything over the net um in the sense of having put your number (1.0) on the net
?: I had to, to get my Microsoft, my er yeah Microsoft free month’s trial er um internet access (1.0) and that was a bit worrying (2.0) Um I don’t know, I don’t know what’s happened to that but I mean they have my credit card number (1.0)
[laughs]
?: I presume Access will protect me from them
(2.0)
LM: Okay, well, why don’t we start to have a look at some of the shopping sites?
[sets up computer] 
LM: And has anybody heard of any supermarkets that are on 
I: Tesco is on it (…)
LM: What have you heard about it?
I: (…) I know about it because I do my own shopping from Tesco’s
LM: Yeah
I: (…)
?: Is it just that script?
?: Well, sort of
[]
LM: Right (1.5) Do you want to start, have a go?
C: Um, what shall, what should I be doing? [laughs]
LM: Have a go at one of these, we’ve got all, a bunch of these bookmarks. Barclay Square is a sort of mall, which (1.0) kind of is a central sort of administration of a whole bunch of shops, like Interflora and (1.5) like um Thomas Cook or something 
C: Mmm
(2.0)
LM: Um Sainsburys, um Amazon you may have never heard of, sort of internet book store in the States
A: Oh yeah I’ve heard of it 
LM:  CDNow is a big CD place in the States (1.5) there’s Richmond Wine, Marks and Spencer’s, Legal and General
?: Marks and Spencer? I didn’t know they had one
LM: I am not sure whether you can shop at Marks and Spencer’s yet. Thomas Cook, card shops (1.5) um
C: We could go to Sainsbury’s or somewhere
LM: Yeah, go for it
(17.0)
C: Any preferences?
(1.0)
?: No
LM: I’m not sure if you can actually spend money on this one (…) shop
C: What about fresh food? (…) order gifts
(11.5)
LM: [indicating security warning on screen] Okay, so you’re all familiar with that?
?: Mmm
A: Yeah
(2.0)
LM: And do you automatically just click ‘okay’, or?
C: Well, it depends on what it is
S: Yeah
C: But also, I haven’t actually sent any information, so…
?: No
C: As far as I am concern it’s [laughs] it’s okay at the moment
(2.0)
J: It’s a bit slow
C: Mmm
A: I know, that’s how slow things (…) geography department
J: Hmm
(11.0)
LM: Do you want to have a look? See if you can buy anything from it…
(2.0)
?: (…)
C: Flowers or chocolates
(2.0)
J: Chocolates
C: Chocolate (…) [laughs]
S: It’s kind of like that, I do it virtually, sometimes you can send virtual bouquets and virtual gifts and stuff
C: Yeah
S: I do that quite a lot, but [laughs] I never do it with like real things
(3.0)
S: Oh
C: Ah, that’s interesting
J: Oh after all of that
LM: So you can phone as well as ordering online
?: Oh right
LM: So let’s try and order some chocolates
(5.0)
A: Has it not happened?
?: I don’t know, it’s 
J:  Yes, it’s ordering it
S: It was those green things
J: It’s ordering the item (…)
(7.0)
C: Ah, so all this is really doing is giving you the information for a company to order in the regular way rather than over (2.0) over the Net
?: Oh, online
A: Well it says ‘online’
C: Yeah
A: (…)
?: (…) choice, have we?
LM: No maybe we should…
S: I think that’s that choc-o-gramme thing, probably
(2.5)
LM: Let’s go back a page and see if there’s anything…
(3.0)
?: Maybe that chocolate down there
?: This one?
?: Yeah
?: Okay there we go
(3.0)
LM: Oh right so you’ve got like a description and pictures and
(2.0)
C: Sixteen pounds
(2.0)
?: (…)
(6.0)
J: ‘To order click on the description’, shall I just try?
LM: Yeah, try that and see…
J: I’ll just try, I’ll bill it to the university
(2.5)
?: Okay (…)
(2.0)
LM: Okay so I don’t have my credit card
[laughs]
LM: (…) but have a look and see sort of (2.0)
?: (…) e-mail
J: What’s that, but what’s it for? ‘For copy of order’, oh
LM: Right (…) send back an email straight away saying…
?: …to tell you that they’ve done it
LM: Mmm
C: (…) credit card details
LM: Aha
C: Visa card number, expiry date, issue number, card holder’s name, card billing address (2.0)
?: Mmm
J: Hmm
(2.5)
C: They give you a sort of cautionary (…)
(3.0)
LM: Okay, alright, well does somebody else want to try another site? (1.5) There’s quite a lot of (…) Who wants to have a go? Anybody?
?: I will
LM: Okay, go for it
(3.0)
LM: If you go to ‘bookmarks’ there should be some more…
A:  Oh okay (2.0) oh
LM: Just next to the (…)
?: Oh right
A: Oh yeah
(8.0)
A: (…) order a CD
LM: Yeah (…) actually that’s quite a good site, although it might be slow at this time of day
(14.0)
?: Mmm
LM: So it’s got a search facility (…) search by
A: Okay (…) pick anything we want (2.0) Anybody? [laughs]
(8.0)
LM: Okay so it should come up with um (…) so you should be able to tell which one it is you want and then click on that
A: Hmm (…) oh (…) it’s searched on the artist hasn’t it?
LM: Yeah
A: Right, okay (2.0)
LM: Is that a title?
A: Yeah. I see (…)
(15.0)
A: Oh (…) shows a discography [laughs]
LM: Should be quite long, too [laughs]
?: Oh
S: Oh that’s a good idea
?: ‘If you like…’ They have that in bookshops now. You know, if you like that kind of thing, they give you other things you might like
LM: Yeah, this is one thing that the Net seems to be quite good at doing, kinds of builds up an idea of your tastes
A: I’d quite like that, I like, I think that’s a good idea
LM: The other thing is the little sign here should play you a sound clip 
?:  Really?
LM: …but I’m not quite sure (2.0) (…)
?: (…)
S: So does this mean we’re paying, you pay American prices for CDs? 
LM: Ye::ah
S: That’s brilliant [laughs]
LM: Um you pay, sort of post and packing
?: Yeah
LM: Although this particular company’s got a European warehouse now so the prices are going down
?: Oh right (2.0)
[sound clip plays]
?: Oh that’s really good that you can do that
I: Is the full song on it?
LM: Sorry?
I: Is the full song on it?
LM: No, it’s usually just clips
I: Right
LM: So for most albums they have half of the tracks (…) play you a twenty second clip of them or something
I: Mmm
J: But soon you’ll be able to download the entire track. You can do a bespoke CD now
(4.0)
LM: So eleven dollars is what, like seven pounds?
?: (…)
LM: I don’t know how much post and packing you have to pay
?: Um okay, oh I see you can put different things in the cart (3.0) oh right, so that’s still not that expensive
?: Three dollars?
?: That’s (…)
J: Is that to Europe?
LM: Yeah
S: There was a bit to click (…) about UK, Europe and Israel at the top, but I don’t know whether (…) but it was at the top of one of the first pages
?: Oh okay
S: But I don’t know (…)
(8.5)
?: (…)
(7.0)
?: Oh right, here we go
(11.0)
S: $6.96 for one item
C: So that’s seventeen, eighteen dollars (…)
LM: (…) cheaper if you order more
?: Yeah
S: Yeah there’s not much difference
(4.0)
A: I think I’d be happier buying things like that over the Internet than food, because I don’t know, I know that (1.0) that it’s probably just a ploy, but when you going shopping you sometimes get inspiration by what you see, whereas from the Internet it’s just like a list of things or something and it’s more difficult to get inspiration for your dinner, I think, whereas when you’re going around the shop you know you think, oh, if there is something particularly in season that looks like 
C:  Yeah, I can imagine something though, say um you know, say if you wanted to have a regular order just for your weekly things 
A:  Yeah well things like washing powder and stuff, yeah that would be alright, but for like real food, I think it would, I think it would ruin (1.5) it a bit for me
(2.0)
A: This would be just about (…)
LM: You have to create a new account first
?: Right
?: They’ve got a privacy policy, I wonder what that is
J: They don’t disclose your er details to other companies
(1.0)
?: Oh right, okay
(10.0)
LM: Okay, so what do you think of that?
(2.0)
C: It seems like they’re trying
?: Yeah
A: I’d think about it if it meant that it would be cheaper than buying them in (1.5) in records shops here
LM: Mmm (1.5) Anybody want to try another one? (…) got (…) online, and some bookshops
J: An airline, cause that’s the one that I was keen on
LM: Airline?
J: Yeah
LM: I don’t know if we have got any airlines
J: There’s Thomas Cook on there or 
LM:  Yeah, it is but you couldn’t, I don’t know that
?: (…) Airline Network
S: I’ve been to an airline and you can buy them, I just haven’t bought them, you know, I’v looked to see how much it’s going to be and then (1.5) backed out of buying it in the end
LM: Do you want to have a look at that?
J: Yeah
LM: Maybe sit there to make it easier
(11.0)
J: (…) make a booking, check fares (…)
(2.0)
J: Alright, so you have to fill in the form (2.0) Alright, okay 
(2.0)
LM: So they should give you a list of (…)
J: Yeah
LM: (…)
(2.0)
J: Right
LM: So where do you want to go? 
J: To Rome
(1.5)
J: (…) there
(2.0)
LM: (…) click on the list
J: Yeah right
(…)
?: Oh
J: Hmm (2.0) Alright so click on this (…) give you a list of available choices for that entry (1.0)
LM: You usually though have like a drop down list
J: Ye:ah (…) letters beginning with A. Okay, maybe they need it um
(2.0)
C: (…)
J: Yeah
LM: Oh try (…)
J: (…) (7.0) Oh okay, here we go (5.0) (…)
?: You right click on
J: Is it the right one or?
LM: No it’s the left one
J: Is it? Right
(12.0)
?: It’s quite (…) isn’t it?
J: Yeah
?: It’s ridiculous
J: This is (…)
?: Oh yes
J: Now why did it come up with that? (7.0) (…) ‘All classes’ yes
C: Go first
?: Hong Kong ooh (…) [laughs]
J: Try that (…)
C: Probably (…) or something
J: Airline, now are we meant to choose which Airline?
(2.0)
LM: For some of those that’s an option if you want it
C: Yeah maybe (…)
J: So let’s move to here. How do I go back a page? (2.0) Oh let’s just go 
(8.0)
?: (…) No fares [laughs]
J: (…) class [laughs] (…) What’s today’s date?
C: Er the eleventh?
A: Eleventh
(9.0)
J: Oh that’s better (6.0) oh that’s okay. What about if I wanted to book it?
LM: I don’t know, is that, maybe clicking on those buttons there?
(6.0)
J: Booking 
?:  Ah
J: ‘Bookings are too close to the (…) to be made online, please phone to make this booking’
LM: Okay
J: Alright, okay. It’s quite useful, I must remember that [laughs]
LM: You can write it down if you like [laughs]
J: I will actually. Okay
(2.0)
LM: Okay, does somebody want to have a look at Tesco’s?
?: I’ll have a look
LM: Tesco’s is not actually online, it’s er (…)
?: It’s not online?
LM: It just comes in a CD Rom package which you install, so you have to, you can update…
?: You have to get a CD Rom from them
LM: …online. Um and this is kind of what it looks like
S: Okay, general, oh, general goods (…)
C: Press five
S: Oh (…)
C: Press five, five is designer tee-shirts
S: Okay (…) General goods, bin liners. No, this is all like (…) (2.0) Oh search, so what are the designer tee-shirts? 
C:  Oh I don’t know
S: Calvin Klein, or something?
?: Probably
(4.5)
S: Oh
J: (…) products
S: Ah, I see (1.5) Okay, just lets try some (…)
(2.0)
S: Half coated chocolate cookies, they are very specific, aren`t they? [laughs]  That’s chocolate cookies…
C: Isn’t there something that allows you to search and (…)?
LM: Um
J: (…) yeah
S: This is good (…) Maryland (…)
LM: If you want to buy it, yeah you either have to um click on it a few times or you can click on it and drag it over to trolley
S: Oh (…) over to the trolley? Oh cool [laughs] quite fun, um (1.0) oh I’ve dragged it over to the 
LM:  You just need to sort of um (…) You don’t need to highlight it 
S:  Oh I see
LM: You just kind of click down on it then use that little (…)
C: (…) It says it’s been added to the checklist 
S:  Oh I must have done it
C: (…) maybe go into, well (…) look what’s in the basket
LM: Yeah there should be quite a lot in your basket [laughs]
J: God, is that your lunch? 
C: Oh that’s cheap for bagels
S: Oh, it’s good that it tells you um, what is it, you know, how much you have got, running total, yeah that’s really quite handy
C: Yeah
LM: So you should be able to scroll down to see the biscuits
S: Okay (2.0)
C: Oh, it’s alphabetical
S: Oh it’s alphabetical, oh crumbs. As if you do your shopping alphabetically [laughs] Maryland, weren’t they? Or maybe it’s just under biscuits…
A: So do they update daily sort of thing?
S: There we go, cookies, here we go
A: So you can…
LM: I think that they probably, um you can download the latest prices um weekly or fortnightly and um I think that when you put in your order basically you can compose a shopping list and then you can go to email it or um go onto the website and send it to them and it should remind you of sort of offers
?: Oh right
LM: But I mean it is still very much in sort of the developing stages, they just got something going and they are kind of doing their market research and ironing out problems as they go
S: Oh, look, promotive biscuits
C: Yeah when you present it to them, suppose you know um Maryland cookies, suppose they don’t have any in stock or something, will they present another option, saying like ‘now these are the same price or our own make’…
LM: Well, they won’t do it to you online
C: No
LM: But one of the things you can do is  you can give them different kinds of authorization codes
C: Yeah
LM: So, for example, you can say (1.5) if you haven’t got any um Granny Smith apples (1.0) you may substitute, I authorise you to substitute them with something very similar
C:Yeah
LM: You know, like say if you want a pound of Granny Smith’s, if they haven’t got any they might give you a pound of something else or they might give you as near to a pound as they can manage, but, but it’s up to you to tell them that you are happy for them to do that
C: Yeah
LM: And if you say, you know, you can say ‘if you haven’t got this then I don’t want anything else’ and they won’t, you know
J: (…) commissioning this research?
LM: No [laughs] the ESRC are [laughs]
C: So after this it gets delivered or they can sort of?
LM: Yeah, it’s delivered. There’s a five pound delivery charge
C: Mmm
LM: And er (2.0)
S: What do they just deliver like within some bizarre areas of Ledbury at the moment? 
LM: Yeah, at the moment it’s in um, quite a lot of Ledbury actually (1.5) and a few areas south of Ledbury
J: Where can you see that?
S: Where does it say? Maybe (2.0)
LM: Sainsbury’s are piloting something similar in lots of areas of Ledbury
(3.0)
S: Ohh sorry, I didn’t mean to do that
(2.0)
S: Here we go
A: It really would be convenient for people for tins of stuff and packets of things, but when it comes to fresh fruit and vegetables I don’t think I would want other people picking them for me in case they were bad or (1.5) not ripe enough or whatever
S: So how do you find out just general things about it, or maybe it’s this (1.0) icon
?: I just wondered, like where they deliver and stuff
LM: I think you probably have to go to Tesco’s website for that
S: Oh, because these people would know, because they’ve got the CD Rom
LM: Yeah this is, this is actually Peter Lunt’s version of it
S: Right
LM: Because he happens to live somewhere in North West Ledbury where they deliver at the moment, so you know, he has got an account
?: He actually uses it?
LM: I think he does sometimes
C: I think it’s really a good idea. I mean, if you think sort of, you know, most people sort of with kids and stuff have to do Saturday shop
LM: Yeah if you and your partner work and have two young kids
J: I still doubt that they would do all their shopping through it, they would still have to go out
C: Not, not all of it, but the bulk, you know, the little bits you can sort of pick up quite easily from day to day, but it’s the big annoying 
J: (…) do the day to day stuff
?: But it’s like the going round that’s the…
J: ‘What am I going to have for supper?’ scenario
C: Well I like buying the ‘what are we going to have for supper’ things, but I don’t like buying the ‘got to do my washing this week’ things or the, you know, rest washing up 
S: Yea:h
C: …liquids and you know the toiletries
S: (…) huge quantities of things
C: Like that’s not fun to buy at all
S: So say like, what washing-up stuff do they sell the huge quantities of it
C: I suppose if you’ve got a baby or something, having nappies delivered, you know, rather than having to (1.5) and baby food or stuff  
LM: And you can set up like a weekly delivery, or something
C: Yeah
S: Hmm that would be good. Is it the same price as in the shops?
LM: Yeah the prices are exactly the same apart from you pay a delivery charge
S: So they’re not, they’re not ripping you off in that respect
C: Yeah
S: Hmm. And you just, so you go to their web page and ask them to send you a CD Rom?
LM: Yes
C: Cool
LM: Yeah I mean if you actually went to their website or say Sainsbury’s you would have to type in your postcode and it would tell you whether they would deliver to you
S: Right I see
C: Mmm
S: And I wonder in, on here, does it ever, does it tell you a lot about the, you know how some people are like allergic to stuff, can you get like...
C: Oh the ingredients, yeah
LM: I don’t think it does that, at the moment
S: No
LM: But I suspect that they will at some point (…) very sophisticated
S: No I don’t think it does actually
C: Mmm
S: Oh did you want something to see?
C: No I just um, I was just wondering if these, oh I see this is all the options on the particular order
S: (…)
C: Mmm
S: Trolley bags (2.0) Oh yeah, put them in a trolley when (…)
C: Oh I’m sure that’s one thing that you wouldn’t want to buy if you 
S:  No [laughs] it would be a really stupid thing to buy [laughs]
LM: Okay, so that’s Tesco’s for you. So yeah, so I mean, maybe we should (…) talk a little bit more generally about (…)
S: Okay
LM: (…) Okay, so what were your impressions of all those ones?
C: I was most impressed by the Tesco’s one, although that wasn’t actually online, that was a CD rom, but I think that the presentation of that was the easiest to use (2.0) (…) attractive
LM: Yeah. Um, in terms of what you were talking about earlier about the virtual supermarket, I mean, it’s not much like a virtual supermarket 
C:  No [laughs]
LM: …at the moment
(2.0)
C: No. Um, these are probably just, or probably what I heard was sort of vague plans for in the future you could go, move the cursor around and um [laughs]. I mean, I think actually that’s a, I think that’s a very good way of, a very good way of doing it, I suppose something probably like um buying clothes, having something virtual would be far more useful where you actually want to see what products, but I don’t really care what a packet of Maryland cookies looks like
LM: Yeah
(2.0)
C: But um, I don’t know, some of them I thought were a bit unwieldy. That, that airport  one
J: I thought that was one of the best [laughs]
S: Yeah
C: I don’t know it seems a bit clonky, I think it should be sort of refined and 
J:  I actually thought that was very good, given that it’s the first time we have really (…)
(5.0)
J: I mean some of the actual airline sites, cause I’ve been to a few of the airline sites, I’ve never bought a ticket, but I’ve looked for prices, they’re actually a lot less unwieldy, they’re much more user friendly, much nicer to look at, so in terms of, I didn’t think that was particularly good in terms of some of the airlines, and even STA Travel’s  is a bit kind of nicer than that, but (2.0) but I liked the CD one was good, because I like the way you could get (…) and I liked the suggestions for other things that you might like, I thought that was quite a good idea
LM: Mmm (2.0) So would any of you use any of these?
(2.0)
I: I wouldn’t (…) personally. Maybe the CD one (…) 
LM: Mmm
I: (…) got to have a credit card
LM: Or a debit card, yeah
I: (…)
C: I’m very interested in the shopping one actually, I could see myself doing that
S: Mmm
C: You know (…)
(2.0)
S: I think that I’d browse, like I’d browse through the CD one, but I might not purchase my CDs from them
LM: Mmm
(1.5)
A: Yeah, I’m probably more likely to buy CDs (…) and the same with recipes really, you’d be able to get the cook book and sort of think, I want that, that and that instead of going to the supermarket and coming back without that vital whatever it was
LM: Yeah
?: Yeah
A: (…) go to the recipe
J: That would be a good idea with the Tesco’s, just type in a recipe and then you get them to provide the ingredients
[laughs]
?: That would be excellent
LM: That’s something that Sainsbury’s are actually working on. You know they have those recipe cards? S: Yeah
LM: I mean they’re providing those online, so you could just add those into your shopping basket
[laughs]
LM: …and suddenly you’ve got everything you need to make
?: Yeah
[laughs]
J: (…)
(3.0)
LM: I mean, do you think that (1.5) I mean you don’t sound that kind of positive generally about using it yourselves. Do you think this is going to take off? And who might it take off for?
(2.0)
C: Um
J: It might 
C:  I think, I think the CD one, for, for sort of younger people buying over the net (…) but I think that older people would probably be slightly more suspicious, you know more cautious
S: But the net’s still, I mean, a lot of people don’t have the net, I mean we’re really lucky cause at university you get it automatically, but I mean a vast quantity of people would never even know what it i:s yet
?: Yeah
S: …so it’s not going to take off on a big scale for ages
C: Well yeah, not yet, but I think it’s surprising the number of people who do, do have it. You know, I
S: You think? C: Yeah, I mean sort of like, very, you know, very ordinary people who just have a computer at home and generally now when they buy the computer they just automatically get web access, and computers are becoming more, you know, sort of appearing more and more in homes
S: Oh, yeah they are, but it’s still quite a, quite a rare thing
J: It’s not, it’s actually very popular (…) I don’t know, what are the statistics? Five (…)
LM: (…) the statistics are all over the place, because it’s hard to tell how many people use the net, from say universities
J: Okay (…) in terms of having a home computer
LM: Yeah
S: Oh right yeah, I mean yeah
J: Most of the people buying computers in the last year or two (…) connected
C: And also the old, the old models are filtering down
J: Yeah
C: The old models, like you know two years ago, which are you know, people are buying new ones, the older ones are still perfectly capable of running internet software
?: Mmm
C: So people, people are, they’re becoming more affordable, this you know, whole technology
J: I mean I suppose that um, I was in um, my sister lives in L.A. which is I suppose the ultimate post-modern place (1.0) and er okay people use them there, er it’s not er, it hasn’t got rid of the consumption experience, in fact you could argue that er (…) certainly is the case in L.A., it’s um increased it, it’s made people go out and walk to shops because they are more curious about the different products (…)    
LM: Do you think it might, some things might take off as things that are bought over the Net more and other things 
J:  Yeah, I mean definitely, I mean I think going back to the 
LM:  Say the airline tickets
J: Yeah
S: Mmm
J: I think there is some things, some commodities which are I suppose more likely, more attractive (2.0) yeah
LM: So what would they be (…)?
J: (…) going back to the thing, obviously I mean you know, the washing up power and having a standing order once a week or once a month, something like that, um... I mean, I actually did, I actually thought the airline one was quite good, because all  the (1.0) er, like (…) attempts at getting quotes on prices on it to go to individual airline sites (…) giving you the option to compare
LM: Yeah
J: And I actually quite liked it
C: Yes it gave you a lot of choices
J: It did yeah
S: I suppose that’s true, it did give you a lot of choices
J: Which is ultimately what you want, you want, it’s price really
S: Yeah
J: Which is, well in my case it would be price (1.5) and the date
C: Yeah
S: That’s true
C: I think, I think for us living in Ledbury as well it’s um, you know, it’s probably, for us it probably wouldn’t be quite so useful because almost anything we want we can get, you know, we know the area well (…) outside of Ledbury, especially in the north of England there is so many products that, you know, so many things that it would just be impossible to get. I remember watching this cookery programme where they tried to find a particular form of chinese um, chinese cabbage, and they just couldn’t find it, they had to order [laughs] they had to order it from Ledbury, you know it was
J: If they order from Tesco, Tesco would have been able to deliver it (…)
C: Yeah
J: (…) their distribution service would um
LM: But if you’re delivering it, as Tesco deliver from their local stores, so I mean in that instance, it depends on what your local stores holds 
J: Exactly, yeah
LM: If you can get chinese leaf or whatever in, but it’s interesting now, showing the same thing to some women in Liverpool a few weeks ago and they were actually much more keen on clothes, very few people think that clothes is something that they would want to buy via the net, but these are women were like, well actually you know, we read all these magazines, we look in the back of Elle and you see that they’re all Ledbury shops and you can’t get them
S: Mmm
LM: …if they had a website I would definitely order them online…
?: Yeah
LM: So (1.5) possibly
S: I think it will be used for stuff a lot, for kind of of paper stuff, things that you probably would do by post now, like insurance and stuff. You know, I think that sort of thing people would be kind of happier with rather to begin with, rather than actually getting products, something tangible, you know, yeah
LM: Yeah
(2.0)
S: I suppose there is a sinister aspect
LM: Yeah? S: I mean I work, I’ve been working at home for the last couple of weeks and I find it dreadful (1.5) the days are just so long and it’s er (…)
LM: So what, yeah okay, what about human contact and shopping?
S: Yeah, do you get it?
LM: How does this compare with, yeah how does it compare with your normal shopping experiences?
I: Miserable really
LM: This, or your normal shopping experiences [laughs]
I: No I (…) my normal shopping experience can be pretty miserable [laughs] (…) in Safeways or whatever (…) that’s pretty horrible as well, just picking out your item and getting it delivered and, but no, it’s not (…) human, I don’t think so, I don’t know (…) sort of thing. It’s nice to go to the shops (1.5) you mightn’t be able to talk to anyone but you see human beings like [laughs]
A: It cuts out trolley rage though [laughs]
LM: Yeah
A: I think if it, if you’re using it as a device to free up your time to do other things like, like to socialise with people, then it doesn’t necessarily take away from the human contact (1.5) you know, I mean I could think of a lot more enjoyable things that I would rather do than wander around Sainsbury’s getting cross with people…
[laughs]
A: …but you know if it means that you’re not going out for four or five weeks at one go I think, you know, it’s probably a bad thing
LM: Yeah (3.0) Okay, and do any of you do any sort of shopping at the moment where you (1.0) say are giving out your credit card details or debit card details. I mean, do you say book cinema tickets over the phone or 
?:  Yeah
S: Yeah
LM: I mean, how does it compare with that kind of, or like mail order, other forms of (2.0) sort of shopping at a distance?
(4.5)
C: Yeah, I mainly, over the phone I mainly just um pay bills actually and that sort of thing that I have already had before, you know (…) but I suppose cinema tickets, yeah you do, (…) give your number and then (2.0) I suppose what, I suppose part of this is that you don’t actually know what happens to your number afterwards, do they, you know, keep this little piece of paper down there that somebody’s um, you know, somebody’s kept, or is it on a computer or is it kind of like…
LM: Yeah
C: …you know, it’s still floating around so how can you be absolutely certain that somebody (…) going to be  used again, and if it is how can you prove that it wasn’t you who used it?
LM: Mmm (1.5) Yeah, can anybody think of any kind of regulatory issues or policy, you know, what sort of, might there need to be a kind of regulatory structure around this if it takes off. What sort of things
(1.5)
C: If, if um pin numbers can work on, you know can work on you’re er cash machine, surely there could be some sort of way of entering a pin number so the person who’s so the person you’re buying from can’t access your code, but you know, your bank will accessing at the same time, so you’ve got online verification
S: (…) idea, cause in France when you buy something with um a Visa or something now the French people have to put in their pin number, you know, when they pay for something, any thing, whereas obviously we um don’t do that. And so it would be good if they could do something, that would be better (…) might make a difference
(6.5)
?: I kind of think that if um if, if somebody (1.5) knew enough sophisticated programming to be able to get that kind of information then I wouldn’t have thought that just the person at the other side, or the, who’s putting most of the information into the screen, you know, I think that they would still be able to get your number…
LM: Mmm
A: …however it was entered. I think you could, there’s just got to be a kind of a trust (4.0)
S: I suppose for the time being we just have to stick with the big names that you know 
C:  Yeah
S: …you presume that Tesco aren’t going to run off with your money, whereas Joe Bloggs in the middle of (1.5) wherever, you don’t even know where he is on the internet half the time, you don’t know who he is, you don’t know whether he is going to give you the stuff, whereas you assume that Tesco are going to deliver your shopping
(2.5)
LM: So you might feel happier with certain brands that are quite well established that you know already 
S:  Yeah
LM: …if they’re on the Net
S: Rather than a small company that I’ve never heard of, yeah
LM: Okay (1.5) And um, one sort of final thing that I don’t know if any of you noticed when you’re surfing the Net, there’s quite a lot of adverts on the net (1.5) and (1.5) you may also know that (1.0) obviously um about cookies and the way that your kind of um use of various websites can be tracked, can be either stored in the, the information is stored on your computer and accessed, or there are kind of tracking technologies which will allow people to follow the way you move through their sites, so for example on the CD Now site, that they can keep a record of which, what you did first, where you went then, and so on, and they can use this sort of information to build up a picture of your tastes, the way you make use of their site and things like that. Now what would your response be to that? You know (2.0) Maybe there’s two issues, one is advertising on the Net, the fact that you can link straightaway to the site that’s advertising and maybe buy something (1.5) and the other one is the ability of various commercial sites on the net to find out quite a lot about how you’re spending your money or how you are spending your time at their site, and use that kind of information to store up a profile of you to try and sell things to you in a more accurate way
(2.0)
C: I don’t mind so much about the second one, you know, the sort of holding information about your preferences, but um [laughs] advertising on the Net actually really, really annoys me. There was one in particular quite recently and um I think automatically, whenever they sort of they um, whenever a little message bar appears in Windows, I just automatically press OK, and there was one advert in particular and it came up with a, you know, with a message bar and I just quickly pressed OK and it took about five minutes to load up another page and then ages to get back to my page and it was an advert and…
LM: Yeah
C: …but I just thought it was [laughs] it was really unfair for it to be, to be er like a Microsoft, you know, sort of 
?: Yeah I think I’ve seen the same, like click here to get an amazing saving on something, ‘OK’ [laughs]
LM: Yeah. What do other people think about that, that kind of thing? I: I don’t mind the preference thing really, because mail order companies do the same thing. I mean, the fact that they’re tracking you, so (1.5) they’re all at it these days and it never (…) it doesn’t make a difference (…)
LM: Mmm
A: Well the supermarket bonus card systems are all trying to track, you know, what you buy and what they should try and sell you. I mean, in some respects it’s better to, for them to try and sell you the stuff that you might want rather than keep inundating you with things that you are not going to want 
(2.0)
LM: Do you think it is better for you?
(1.5)
A: I don’t know, I tend to ignore [laughs] most of what people try and offer me, so 
(3.0)
J: Well that’s the bottom line (…) just trying to find new ways to
LM: And that’s quite transparent?
J: Well yeah (…)
LM: Okay
J: I mean it can be counter productive (…) as well. I mean if, for example, every time I logged into Tesco’s or whatever, and they kept trying to sell me (…) underwear or whatever, I suspect there would be a time when I thought (…)
LM: Do you feel there’s any way on the net to express your kind of preference for, to not be kind of (2.0) I mean you know for example looking at the um, the privacy statement with I think it was CD Now saying they will kind of give bulk information about how many people buy their Nirvana CDs, but they won’t give personal information about your particular purchase of a Nirvana CD (1.5) Do you think maybe that companies will have to compete with each other to have (1.0) good policies or do you think that in the absence 
J:  I mean that is a statement, it’s not a law or so on, it’s not regulation
LM: Well it’s self regulation, kind of code of conduct 
?: Yeah
LM: …that you can say 
J: Well that could change quite easily. There’s all this talk about democracy on the web, but I don’t really think we have it, we have much say
LM: Mmm
J: (…)
(2.0)
LM: How do the rest of you feel about that, I mean this is another thing I suppose about the way the internet was set up as quite chaotic and quite democratic and interactive and open, and increasingly you get commercial organizations setting up, advertising, the sole reason for being on the net is to sell you things and to find out more about you so they can sell you more things. Do you think that will change the net or not?
C: I think um, I think in terms of how slow the net is that people might complain and try to regulate them there, you know sort of, you know so that you can’t just sort of send things out to people and you can’t just, and you know, you can’t just sort of take up net time [laughs] when people are (…) I think perhaps that more than people actually complaining about getting unsolicited things or (…)
(1.0)
J: I suppose the market itself will (…) I mean if every time you logged on, and we got every single company around world sent us an advert and they themselves have realised well, this obviously isn’t working (…) so I suppose the market, whilst I don’t agree in self-regulation, I think the market itself, I think there will be a time when companies will say well why is it that we’ve invested so much money, nobody’s buying anything, so they might actually be bad (…)
?: I don’t know, I mean, do people buy things using those adverts? I’ve never followed a link yet, so I don’t know what they offer you
LM: I don’t know, but I suppose one of the points is that they can tell, is that now the kinds of tracking technologies with the ability to advertise on the internet means that, say, there’s lots of kind of like women’s issue pages and they’ve got lots of adverts from Clinique. Now Clinique can tell where you come from, if you go to their page, if you make that link they can tell where you come from and they can track you through that site and they can ultimately tell what you’ve bought, whether you’ve bought anything, what you bought and whether you go back. So they can tell if their advertising is being effective in a way that retailers can’t at the moment really (2.0)
?: I suppose then they can follow it up by sending you more specific information, and try and get you
(1.5)
LM: And they can may be extrapolate and know certain sites have been particularly successful places to place adverts, certain kinds of consumers have been willing to follow links and then to send money online and so on
C: Um, but then again, you know sometimes I might want to buy something [laughs]
[laughs]
C: …so you know, it would be quite nice perhaps to be targeted so that the only adverts I get are the ones that I would be interested in, rather than you know (…) I’d prefer it you know, to a football sweatshirt link
LM: Well, this is what they’re hoping is that it won’t annoy you perhaps so much if they know more about you then they won’t have to bother you with junk mail and you’ll be more likely to buy things
?: Mmm
J: Junk mail’s just, I mean I get so much junk mail and it’s so off the mark and er, you know, well I’m sure most of us don’t open it in case (…) So that they can do (…) it seems (…)
C: Well with junk mail nowadays you can actually um, there is actually a company that you can phone up and they can take your name off the lists as well (…) I don’t know if thre is anything like that on the net yet
J: (…)
C: You could probably look it up on the email, I’m sure they’ll, I’m sure they’ve got a website somewhere [laughs]
J: (…)
(2.0)
LM: Okay, has anybody else got anything to add, I guess we’re kind of running out of time (2.0) Okay, alright
J: Actually, one last question is er who actually uses, who uses the results of this? I mean you say the ESRC are funding it, but will commercial organisations 
LM:  We haven’t, we never applied for co-funding for the project
J: Okay
LM: Um, so basically, it’s going to go back in the form of a report to the ESRC
J: Yeah
LM: They have different kind of sort of funding headings and they have one called ‘Virtual Society?’ which is running the first stage, which is running for about three years and this will contribute to that. I mean we’ve been in touch with say BT, but more like to pick their brains than the other way round. Um and we tried to get in touch with Sainsbury’s to actually, because they are launching their (…)


