Ut1
User trial 1, 26.08.98, ABC1 single woman 18-35, Low IT

LM: And what we’re looking at at the moment is um electronic commerce like shopping on the Internet (2.0) I don’t know if you’ve heard anything (1.5) about that
C: Well I know the Internet almost does everything doesn’t it? I mean like you know there’s been programs on television educating you about the future of the Internet and the fact that you won’t even have to leave your house to do anything, you know, but um as far as it all works I mean I haven’t got a computer even, so I don’t you know have any sort of like dealings with the Internet. I mean they’re around various jobs I’m on and off, but you know I’m not really on it (1.5) like assisting people here and there but I’m not on my own sort of like taking the (…) programming in or anything like that (2.0)
LM: Yeah. So what is it that you do? C: Well I’m an actress stroke interior decorator stroke [laughs] P.A. to various like you know bodies in the film business, so (…) bits and pieces of everything (2.0)
PL: Yeah. So do you use computers…
C: On and off, but not enough to sort of like you know really know where I am with them, I mean like you know, if I went in to someone’s house and like they had a computer, and they said right okay, can you order this on the Internet, they’d have to tell me what I’m doing, you know
LM: Mmm. So what sort of stuff do you do like (2.0) um like do you type letters or whatever?
C: Yeah. Not brilliantly but um you know, what with like you know modern technology, you know you don’t have to worry too much about spell check and things like that, is sort of things like that…
PL: So you know about word processing on the computer and…
C: Yeah, though I’m really sort of like bog standard basics
PL: Yeah
C: You know [laughs] (…) to be up there earning a lot of money I think [laughs]
PL: [laughs]
C: Cause like um my sister’s boyfriend, he’s um programming computers
LM: Oh right
C: Thirty five pounds an hour he gets
PL: Really? C: Yeah, but it’s taken him a long time to train up to get to that stage
PL: Yeah, yeah
C: If I had like you know the dedication, yeah you know, and your money was your main objective then (1.5) I think that’s something that you know, designing all these new websites is you know, where it’s at, isn’t it?
(2.0)
PL: Yes I think a lot of people are employed doing that at the moment. Such a new thing
C: Yeah
(2.0)
LM: And so did you sort of ever like use computers at school? Were you…
C: No, cause I’m thirty-three, so I mean we had computer studies (1.5) and er it was an option it wasn’t like a compulsory subject and I never took it up, and er (2.5) so the only time I’ve been anywhere near computers has just been through you know, just pot luck, you know
PL: Mmm
C: Not, I’ve never gone for a job with like you know anything to do with computers 
(3.0) 
LM: So when was like the first time you kind of used a computer? Do you remember…
C: Probably my brother’s like computer that you could play games on…
PL: Yeah
C: …so that was my first [imitates playing games on computer], and then er I do write occasionally so you know I might type in the odd sort of thing, and then have it printed out
LM: Yeah
C: But even then that had to be set up for me, I couldn’t just go and set it up and go ‘Right I’m going to use the computer now’. My sister’s got one as well, she works at the Telegraph, and um so she’s you know, (…) not actually, I haven’t got a word processor at home, at my parents’, but sort of everyone’s talking about it, and I think it would be really good for any family to have some sort of connection
LM: Yeah
C: I’m sure everyone more or less does or will do in the next year or two (2.0) and um I definitely would like to have a computer, and er you know er find out more about it but I’m not going to buy a computer at the moment because one I don’t know that much about them. Two, they’re being updated all the time aren’t they? So until I’m really on top of it I don’t think it’s you know really worth my while…
LM: Yeah
C: …you know getting involved in all that (2.0)
PL: What about shopping on the Internet? Have you sort of heard about it (2.0)? C: Um (1.5) I’ve heard about it but I mean I’ve never ordered anything, I’ve never actually gone shopping on the Internet
PL: So what kind of things do you think you can buy?
C: Um probably I would say, you know like say there was a company and you wanted to order something, rather than phone up or send in a postal order you could probably do it all with your credit card and just do it all over the Internet, but um I’ve never done it so…
LM: Have you used the Net before at all?
(1.5)
C: Yeah (1.0) I’ve used it a couple of times, um to send um e-mails from India last year, which was brilliant because there was no way any post was going to get to anyone by Christmas, and it was like instant you know, although it did keep shutting down [laughs] but I think it was because of where I was you know, and er what else er recently, yeah I was helping um this is someone in the new play festival, and we have to send a couple of things through on it (2.0) and it all got very complicated actually, um, but then I think that was just because of the state of everyone in the office [laughs]everything I touch seems to go wrong, you know? Ah it occasionally goes right, but um yeah
PL: You can have a go with ours in a minute, see what happens
C: And also a good friend of mine, he um designed, I think he was designing or he was designing, it was a couple of years ago now, it was my first real insight into it, he was designing the new er tram lines for Croydon or whatever it was
PL: Oh right
LM: Oh yeah
C: And so he was doing it all on his computer
PL: Yeah
C: And like he was doing business, um as he was doing it, um it was the Internet or whatever, and er my aunt, she works for ‘Q’ and er if ever you want to find out about someone, she just goes in, types into the Internet, you know it will give you a full story on this person, everything that they do, what they can give you, what you can get from then and you know. You can be quite nosy with it, I think
PL: Mmm
C: Yeah. But I don’t think anyone’s on it who doesn’t want to be on it. I think it’s all sort of quite above board, isn’t it? (2.0) At the moment, although there’s probably top secret little numbers you could find out about [laughs]
(2.0)
PL: Do you think that might be, that might develop, so…
C: Well I mean as it stands at the moment away from the Internet, you can walk down the road and you’ve got not so say about being recorded, so you know if you’ve got something to hide then I think those are the people that are going to argue against it
PL: Mmm
C: But um (2.0) I’m all for sort of like simplicity and just like you know if it’s less hassle just to plug into a computer and find out about something rather than going to the library or going along and getting an investigator out, it’s just…
PL: Mmm
C: …it’s good (2.0) As long as it doesn’t lie [laughs]
(4.0)
PL: Well what about it acting? Do you know if people use the…
C: Yeah cause Spotlight you’re on the Internet instantly you just go through, just it’s all there
PL: Yeah
C: And it’s updated constantly, so it’s not like the old-fashioned way of like a book that has to be updated every year, so that’s good, that’s really beneficial. And also like film companies or whatever, you know, just look up pages and pages and just…
PL: Yeah
C: ….go straight there
PL: Yeah
(3.0)
PL: So can you, have you seen your own entry on Spotlight in the, on the…
C: No, I’ve never bothered, cause I haven’t been acting for about two years now
PL: Right
C: Although I’m still like out there as far as like you know, Spotlight goes
PL: Mmm
C: I was at college up until last year doing interior decoration and um (2.0) so er you know I haven’t really had my hands in, but (2.0) I don’t know, now I’m not going to film school I don’t know what’s going to happen. I just got back from Spain, I was out there running a club with someone for a month, and um dancing my arse off every night and I’ve just got back and I’ve been doing some life modeling in Somerset last week, I just got back today, and my life’s so like ugh, you know it’s a bit unpredictable 
(3.0)
PL: Okay
C: You know, an e-mail address would be good probably for me, but
PL: That’s right, cause you can get at it anywhere
C: Yeah
PL: …in the world
C: Yeah, around the world
PL: Yeah, good
LM: When you were in, like were you travelling in India…
C: Yeah I was in India and then I went to Colombia and then I got back in March and um it’s like ‘Right I’m going to go to film school, blah blah blah’ so I got busy with all that, and um learned a little bit more about technology as far as, you know, doing editing and sort of going into sort of like these soft engineering places (2.0) and er it doesn’t scare me as much as it did, because I think all that’s even helped me you know, the more, it’s just, it’s just not knowing. Once you know it’s simple (2.0) it’s just you could be there for hours going around in circles like you can with a word processor, you know, like god, bloody hell, you know? I might as well just do it by [laughs] an old-fashioned typewriter and I’ll get it done quicker [laughs]. Yeah, you’re erasing things, putting things in that you don’t want and going around in circles not knowing exactly what it is you’re supposed to file and what you want to take out or put back and, so much you can do, you know, and if you haven’t got an education in it you can spend your lifetime trying to find out how to get from A to B (2.0) so I mean, I’m sure kids at school nowadays have it as compulsory
LM: Yeah
C: probably, all this (3.0) So you obviously both use it all the time at work, yeah? PL: Quite a lot, yeah, I guess so
C: Do you come across many people like me who don’t know much about…
LM: Yeah, sort of, not in working in the university. The universities are quite computerised…
C: Yeah, yeah
LM: But really I think it depends on the job you’re doing
PL: I mean it’s true that the students who are coming through now are, yeah, they’re pretty computer-literate now, so they often have their own computers
C: Yeah, I know there was course I did and I gave up with it, at the library. It was free
PL: Yeah
C: For people who didn’t have an education with it, and the first few lessons were free which I did, and they were simple, just using a mouse you know, and then after it you had to start paying and I thought bollocks to that, you know (…) right now it’s not important [laughs] So I didn’t, I didn’t ever go back and carry on with it. But now September’s coming around and um I know there’s all these courses like for adults and evening classes and stuff, and so I may well, I want to do Spanish, I may well take up something like that
PL: Mmm
C: And this woman Julia [the recruiter], whatever her name was, it’s like a twist of fate, you know, you sort of something and suddenly someone says to you [impersonates recruiter] “Do you have a computer?”…
[laughs]
C: …and it’s like oh well it’s funny you should say that, I haven’t yet but you know I am sort of like thinking about it, and er, so maybe this is like a little omen
LM: (…) don’t know if we’ll put you off or what
C: No, I’m sure you won’t put me off (2.0) I’ll probably be out there tomorrow, you know like [laughs]
LM: Well shall we have a look at some of the…
C: Yeah, yeah
LM: …have a look at them, er (…) We’re going to connect through the university’s server like at UCL (2.0) um (7.0) I’m just going to try and dial the university first of all (4.0)
PL: So this little thing inside the computer here is a modem (1.5) and that connects the computer through your telephone line to the exchange
C: Yeah
PL: And it just rings like um, like a phone
C: You don’t have to pick up the receiver? PL: No (1.0) it’s got it’s…
LM: Yeah there it’s got through to UCL and UCL is like checking that the password I put in is the right one for…
C: Yeah
LM: …Pete’s account. And now it’s just put up like a little sign there saying it’s connected (3.0) so then we can go to er (2.0) Netscape which is the browser that we use to get onto the Internet
PL: So do you know what a browser is?
(1.5)
C: Oh God (1.5) educate me. I don’t know whether I know what it is and I don’t know what the word is but 
PL:  Yeah, yeah. Well it’s a program on the computer 
LM:  It’s kind of basically all this set up, literally the frame to your screen 
PL:  Yeah
LM: In quite simple terms
C: With all the info on it
LM: Yeah which will tell you, you know, how to get backwards and forwards 
PL: Yeah
LM: Or you know you’ll type in where you want to go there and it stores some information, there’s this bookmarks bit, there’s a kind of history of all the locations I’ve typed in there recently wanting to keep, so I thought you might like to have a look at some of those. Um (2.0) so what I’ve put on here are some websites that 
C:  So you can go to Tesco and buy food already?
LM: Yep
(2.0)
C: So can you go up and down the aisles on this, or are you just, you know, tell them what you want? Like it goes to pasta and you say “uh uh uh uh”, and it…
PL: Well we’ll show you that one, it’s actually just lists (2.0) it’s 
C:  What they have 
PL:  not like a video game where…
C: Yeah
PL: …you can actually point to the products
C: So you just tick what you want? PL: Yeah
C: And then how do they, do they deliver it to your door? Or do you go and pick it up from the supermarket?
PL: They deliver it, er Tesco’s and Sainsbury’s are doing it
C: And is there a charge for that? PL: Yeah, the delivery charge is five pounds
C: Yeah, so if you’re doing a big shop 
PL:  If you’re doing a bit shop 
C:  it’s worth it
PL: Yeah
C: Yeah
LM: Especially if you haven’t like got a car or whatever
C: Yeah, or if you’re away from home and you’re going to be back that evening and you haven’t got time to go to the supermarket it would be there for you 
PL:  Yeah you can tell them the time that you want it delivered
C: Oh that’s wicked
PL: Yeah that’s good
C: Cause they’re building a big huge Tesco’s just like literally two minutes down the road from here
PL: Oh right
C: So it won’t be much need for it 
PL:  You won’t need it
[laughs]
C: But there might be if I’m miles away and I before I get back by tonight, you know, and I er haven’t got any wine in
[laughs]
LM: Yeah, good for heavy things [laughs]
(2.0)
LM: Yeah so there’s a bunch of others, there’s Sainsbury’s which is (1.5) similar thing, although I don’t think it’s up and running yet
PL: It is actually now
LM: It is now?
PL: Yeah
LM: Oh maybe we should try that
PL: We can’t here. It’s only running in Watford
(1.5)
LM: Oh (2.0) Amazon is an American-based book store (1.5) CDNow is also American based, which (…) Marks you can’t buy things from yet (1.5)
C: Loot? What’s that then? You can do that paper advert just doing that. You can do it on the phone just as easily, I mean you just talk it, if you just type it (2.0) yeah
LM: Yeah. So I don’t know if you want to perhaps have a look one of these. Have you used a mouse like this before?
C: Um well I’ve used a mouse on a piece of like card that you move around
LM: Yeah you basically just use this little thing to move (2.0)
C: Yeah
LM: Just through it, and then (…) the Gap, LondonWide is a kind of fashion thing, um (2.0) Barclay Square is like a mall based in Britain which is just a cluster of different shops I think
C: So it’s nothing to do with Barclay Square (2.0) in Barclay Square?
LM: No [laughs]
C: [laughs]
LM: Um (2.0) and Waterstone’s, Boots so
C: Okay shall we go for Waterstone’s
LM: Yeah, sure (2.0) So this is like just a (1.0) click on the mouse
(12.0)
C: So um (…) it’s just coming up slowly now
LM: This one’s got kind of two bits to it. It’s got this search thing for anything you want
C: Yeah
LM: So anything you want you know you can search down there. This is kind of its front page, kind of like it’s a magazine and it’s got sort of special offers, links to different bits of the site (3.0). So if you want to have a look around there, and just click on here
C: There?
LM: Yeah
(2.0)
LM: It’s quite sensitive this mouse actually, takes a bit of getting used to
C: Yeah
LM: (…)
C: So now how do I go forward from this?
(1.0)
LM: Carry on down, you just keep on clicking on that one on the right
(11.0)
C: Do you have to go through all this or can you just go straight, type through what book you want?
LM: Yeah, you can do that here (1.5) if you move the mouse and click on there (2.0) and say…
C: Okay it’s called The Art Book, but I’m not sure
(3.0)
LM: And if you just move the mouse like that it will set it off
(3.0)
LM: That’s fine
C: Yeah
LM: So you could, I mean if you just wanted to find whatever they’ve got by, say a particular author you could choose it, or if for some reason you only have the ISBN number [laughs]…
C: Yeah
LM: …you could add that in, you know, or, or whatever
C: Yeah
LM: (…)
[long pause]
LM: Okay this is to order. So if you click on the bit that’s underlined there, that’s highlighted, it should give you more information about who it’s published by, how many pages
(3.0)
PL: There’s an American program where you can pick up reviews of the books (2.0) so you can check out what other readers have sort of thought of it
LM: So you haven’t got loads of information there…
C: No
LM: …but it tells you how long it will take to order and just (…)
PL: You can get your credit card out [laughs]
C: [laughs]
LM: And yeah you often, when you make orders, you often get these security notices (5.0). Now this one’s saying um (2.0) the document and any information you send are encrypted for privacy while in transit (2.0) so this is actually, that’s quite a new thing
PL: Mmm
LM: Cause you often get these little notices popping up saying you know you are sending an insecure document, um you know a third party may be able to view the information you’re sending and so on. Um this is something slightly different (2.0) so I guess we can just go on straight through that (2.0) so those are all the forms
C: So this secure document and insecure document, whatever it is, what does that mean? What does it, how do you mean a third party will be (3.0)
PL: Well the information that you’re er that’s being sent through the public telephone system…
C: Yeah
PL: …so…
C: Yeah so anyone can find out what you’re ordering
PL: Well not anyone, but anyone who has the technology…
C: Yeah
PL: …and the ability to do it
C: Yeah. So say for instance like what I was talking about earlier, like you know um people’s public right of like you know privacy and everything, er so it does mean that you can, you know, keep things quiet, you don’t have to let everyone know. Like say you’re sharing a house with someone, or a credit card with someone, like your husband or whatever, and um, and like you want to order something for his birthday but you don’t want him to know how much money you’ve spent
PL: Right
C: So it’s kind of like, you know he’ll find out eventually, but you know you just want to do that, you can do it privately so that he won’t find out
PL: No it doesn’t mean that (1.0) er it er (1.5) he could find out by ringing up the company and er…
C: Yeah
PL: …to find out what had been bought on the credit card if he wanted to [laughs]
C: Yeah
PL: No all, all it means is that, that they’re, it’s going to be coded, they’re going to send the information in a coded form
C: Mmm
PL: And what they’ve done is they’ve set up a, a connection with the people they’re going to send the information to, so that they know which code’s going to be used for the information that’s going to come. Then they send it coded so if anyone intercepts it on the way, they don’t know which code’s being used…
C: Yeah
PL: …so they can’t crack it, I suppose
C: Yeah, so you definitely get what you’ve ordered, sort of thing
PL: Yes, and no one can tell what it is that you’re ordering
C: Yeah, yeah
(…)
C: And like especially when you’re ordering stuff from the supermarket, and it’s like you can’t have a discrepancy with what you ordered and what you didn’t order and…
PL: Right
C: …and what you got and what you didn’t get
PL: What they, what they do about that in the supermarkets is that they um (2.0) send you back the list that you’ve ordered so you can check it…
C: Yeah
PL: …if you want to
C: Yeah
PL: Er, so, and they sort of double check the list, so what they do is you type the list in, it goes off to their office, they make up a list that’s for their use, and then they send that list back to your computer, and your computer checks their lists against yours [laughs] to make sure 
C:  All within minutes
PL: Yeah
C: Yeah
PL: Just to make sure it’s all (1.0) right 
(2.0)
LM: So here you’ve just got there just like a normal order form (…) (3.0) It tells you how much it’s going to cost you, how quickly you’ll get it and
C: Where does it say how quickly you get it? Rapid…
LM: Rapid. It said when we went if we go back to the page we’ve just looked at (1.0)
C: And if it didn’t have it in stock would it say that?
LM: Yeah. Or what it would more normally do would be um to say it would take longer, it would say you know it’s not in stock but to get it it’ll take us a couple of weeks so you know you can expect to get it in two weeks or three weeks and it sort of turns into 
C:  Yeah five or six days
LM: Probably quicker actually. It probably means it can be sent out as soon as you order it um (10.0) See, it’s telling you how quickly you’ll get it (3.0) I just seem to have ordered another copy of the book [laughs]
C: [laughs]
LM: Oh well
C: It didn’t actually say there like you know cost of delivery or anything else like that, I mean is that sort of  
LM:  (…)
C: Alright yeah yeah
LM: So one paperback £1.50
C: Yeah
LM: Sort of standard delivery charges, then you have to go out (…) all this information here
C: and you type in what your credit card number and stuff and 
LM:  Yeah and tell them sort of standard stuff, number and expiry date
C: Yeah
LM: Address where the stuff’s going
C: See this is what spooks me a bit like I mean all this very routine typing your number in on like you know these I know you said its security sort of like codes and stuff like that but you’ve just put that through and not signed anything and you’re sending it off, you know and I mean it’s going through to the other side and someone’s taking all the information on the other side, they know your address, they know your telephone number, they know your expiry date, they know the card number, what’s to stop them using your card straightaway with all the information you’ve given them to go and book themselves on a you know cruise around the world and disappear the next day, nothing, is there, there’s nothing to stop that happening? So how’re they going to stop that happening? [laughs]
LM: [laughs]
C: How’re they going to stop that you know? (3.0)
PL: Well it’s a new thing and no one’s quite sure yet I think
C: Mmm. Yeah
PL: And (1.0) 
C:  People who take the orders must be in secure jobs, they’re not just part-timers who’ve come in for a few weeks to do some part-time
PL: That might be one way of dealing with it, or it might be that because it’s a computerised process you could give part of the job to one person and part of the job to another person. Or it may be that some of it’s automated so no one actually sees it at the other end, it’s a computer 
C:  Yeah. Just going through to a little box and yeah, yeah
PL: And so someone just gets the instruction to send the book 
C:  Yeah like going into Argos and like goes downstairs and someone  
PL:  Yeah
C: Comes up for you
PL: So that would be I don’t know 
C:  Yeah
PL: Would be one part. Do you think that they should um let customers know 
C:  How secure things are?
PL: Yeah
C: Yeah definitely, cause I think that’s one thing that people are worried about just even down the telephone you know, giving details 
PL:  Mmm
C: But um when it’s all printed out in front of you like that, it’s even more like here you go just (1.0) do what you want
PL: There’s another aspect to this privacy as well, have you heard of Cookies on the Internet?
C: No
PL: Okay. Well, while we’ve been on there um I don’t know if Waterstone’s actually do this but what they could do is that they could read because we’re connected both ways, that’s the thing about the Internet, it’s not just you sending information but they’re sending information back to you
C: Mmm
PL: And they can actually get information off your computer without you actually knowing it like in the background and one of the types of information they can get is this litttle programmes that are left on your computer by any Internet site that you visit. So they can find out about which other Internet sites you’ve visted 
C:  Mmm
PL: And some of things that you did when you were (…)
C: Yeah.
LM: So say for example look at what I was doing this afternoon before I came out I thought of like a few things that we might like to look at (…)
C: So if you’re a Sainsbury’s regular and you’re suddenly at Tesco’s they’re going to think wait a minute [laughs] of 
PL: [laughs] It might be useful for them to know 
C:  Yeah [laughs]
PL: That you were 
C:  So you’re inundated with all this sort of like stuff through the letterbox saying ‘Shop at Sainsbury’s we’re much better than Marks and Spencers’
PL: Well I mean that might be the kind of use they can make of it, what do you think of that?
C: Well I hate all that crap that comes through the door anyway, but um you know I’m all for competition because it means you get better deals
PL: Yeah. So an increase in competitiveness
C: Yeah
PL: But what about the privacy aspects that you were talking about?
C: Well, I mean um the only thing that I’m saying is like you know and you can do it on the phone and what’s to stop people, that does happen actually. In fact it’s happened to me twice um just from actually signing things in shops in foreign countries and coming back finding on my statement I’ve got other things I never bought. Er, I suppose you know as far as credit cards go they’re going to have to they’re going to have to modernise those and with technology the way it goes and they’re talking about an eye aren’t they through banking systems. Maybe like you’re saying information’s coming in and going out, maybe from your own little computer it can be sort of like sunk with your credit card, so that if it doesn’t match it won’t work so that the order won’t go through and if you’re using someone elses to order on you’ll have to do like a code or something
PL: Yeah, yeah. I mean I don’t think they’ll do anything like that to begin with but I think they’ll sort of suck it and see, I mean if they get a lot 
C:  Yeah
PL: Fraud they they’ll have to stop
C: I mean especially when you can use this worldwide
PL: Yeah that’s right
C: You know, cause it’s like it’s not just worrying about the police chasing or the investigators chasing up things here. If we know it every thousand people have got that information and they’re all doing it simultaneously, and overnight you’re suddenly you know in debt big time
LM: [laughs]
C: Oh my god [laughs]
PL: [laughs] What’s this you’ve been buying, a car in Peru [laughs]
C: Yeah, that you crashed hours later [laughs]
PL: [laughs] On your way to a robbery, yeah
C: [laughs] I was here, but I was here, no you weren’t [laughs]. We had you computerised coming in from America, anyway
PL: How likely do you think that’s sort of 
C:  Well, I think there’s always going be someone to break the rules aren’t there I mean when credit cards came out they were supposed to be really safe, but they’re not and they’re still trying to work out years later how to sort of counteract all this fraud that goes on, so the bigger you make something the more you’ve got to worry about and look how huge the Internet is and it’s developing all the time
PL: But I mean hmmm they do try and deal with that fraud in various ways, credit card companies, but basically they live with it and we pay for it.
C: Yeah
PL: Cancel the credit cards and interest rate’s built in, I mean presumably this is going to bring quite a lot of business to credit cards cause people use them to order it so they might just build the losses in there
C: Yeah or your credit card will be the Internet so that everything can only come and go from it so that if you’re feeding in the blanks in here nothing’s going to come back and everyone’ll have a little code, password
PL: They’ve got this idea called um E-cash, where you can , actually it won’t be real money but your bank will agree that you have this much money to spend on the net and you can then spend that money
C: Yeah
PL: Then you wouldn’t be using your credit card you see
C: Yeah
PL: And that would be only a set amount that you’d agreed with the bank so if that were to run out then no one else could buy with it
C: Yeah, but you can bank anywhere on the Internet can’t you?
PL: Yeah, you can do and you can also bank 
C:  You can do that to counteract that (2.0) God [laughs]
PL: [laughs]
C: We’re all going to be really fat in ten years time, we’re just going to sit at home and eat, drink, everything comes to the door, we won’t go out anywhere so we won’t be ordering any clothes on that thing [laughs]
PL: Oh no you will, you’ll have to have larger sizes [laughs]
C: Oh God [laughs] I mean have they got yet so that you can go into say like you know the magazines out at the moment like Elle and you can just type into them and you can see like page whatever it is blah, blah, blah and you can see the photographs about buying the magazine so you can say I want to order that this month and don’t even buy the magazine just buying it just going in to look at Vogue’s fashion pages
PL: Shall we try it?
C: Yeah let’s try it. It’s definitely it’s one of the things they’re thinking about is how they can link in say the adverts that you find in not necessarily the features, but the adverts you find in something like Elle with a link to buy
LM: Why does it say HTPPS?
PL: (2.0) I don’t know
C: I mean pretty soon maybe you won’t even have to order a book from Waterstone’s you can just look at it on the computer
LM: I don’t know what the address is for Elle, so I’m just trying a guess
C: It’ll be wicked as well when you don’t have to type all this stuff and you just talk to it
PL: Yeah
C: Is that something that’s being develop
PL: There’s a lot of research on at the moment but it’s very difficult for them to reliably interpret human voices
C: Yeah
PL: But yeah that’ll come too
LM: (…) what’s what
C: Probably the publishers under Emap or something who publish sports 
PL: Try Vogue
LM: Okay
PL: What did you try Vogue?
LM: Tried Elle
PL: (3.0) Are you using this (…)?
LM: Oh my goodness, it’s (…) letters (7.0)
C: So are you a market research company or are you at college doing all the Internet future stuff or
PL: We’re, I work at the University and er as an academic
C: Yeah
PL: And this is our research 
C:  It’s not
PL: We work together on this project 
C: It’s not like for a commercial reason
PL: It’s not commercial no 
C: So it’s just like a survey to see what’s going on with the public
PL: Yeah (15.0)
LM: Search words not found (10.0)
PL: See the frustration of computing
C: It is very slow though (10.0)
LM: (…) different search (…)
C: Are you supposed to put a plus in between words that you want to link together?
PL: You don’t have to (2.0) Oh yes, otherwise it just takes the first one
C: (…) multiply them
PL: Yeah
C: I’m just thinking the word Vogue might appear in quite a lot (8.0)
LM: Right (6.0) Oh yes it’s got En Vogue
PL: Yeah, (3.0) bet they’ve got a website 
LM: (8.0) (…) Vogue magazine
PL: This programme like this is using just searches everywhere on the Internet and picks up any reference to Vogue
C: Yeah
PL: It’s getting all sorts of 
LM:  Hundreds and hundreds (10.0) Oh yeah, there you go
C: This friend of mine in Australia and er she’s on the email like you know right now I could just like get through to her on this and say I’m in the middle of doing some market research [laughs] but you wouldn’t be able to 
PL:  What time is it in Australia?
C: Must be really early
LM: But you could send her a message, but you wouldn’t be able to talk online with her
C: Oh this is like Vogue’s obviously got a page here organised by its publishers (8.0) I don’t know what this is
PL: Can you click on this image itself?
LM: I’ll just do something else (6.0) I didn’t mean it to move it onto the actual text. We should get a little hand here
C: Could you (…) Vogue magazine
LM: That is it
C: How do you mean
LM: Health and fitness articles (…)
C: And this month’s issue that’s what we want, right so (15.0)
PL: So it’s got a picture of the cover
LM: Yeah
PL: Of the current issue right
C: (4.0) So if I just leave it on fashion will that go, or do I have to go forward
LM: It doesn’t look like that’s um, it looks like it’s just listing but it’s not, (2.0) If you can scroll down using that. I think it might just be giving me a, sort of like a, (3.0) yeah I don’t think you can go I don’t think it looks like you can go to any of these articles
C: No you can’t just go, alright (…)
LM: No
C: Yet (2.0)
LM: But it is a possibility and I think, I don’t know if you’ve heard anything about interactive TV or digital TV?
C: Yeah
LM: Where you’ll be able to 
C: Yeah, in fact a really good friend of mine’s actually going round the country at the moment, this guy, and er he’s er going round all the Curry’s and people who sell digital Sky TV you know telling them what they’ve got to do to sell the new packages and so I’ve got info on it all you know rehearsals here in town about he delivers his speech
LM: [laughs] One of the things they’re thinking about is like say you’ll have a similar mall type set up where you’ll have a bank and shopping centre and um maybe like during ad breaks you’ll actually be able to come and use your remote control to flip to you know the kind of 
C: Well with digital TV you can actually watch films every fifteen minutes, you don’t have to be in at certain times, you don’t have to record them
LM: Yeah (…)
C: Yeah, yeah I mean that’s wicked
LM: And just one of those possibilities is that you know you can see an advert or feature on TV and there’ll be like a little button in the corner saying you know, you know press such and such a button on your remote to order you know whatever from such and such a shop so it’s quite possible that’s going to happen here too
PL: Oh, seem to have got into something else [laughs]
LM: (…)
PL: Yeah, this is a different bookstore, is it
LM: Have a look see if there is a helicopter
PL: (…)
C: There’s an advert here inside the magazine feature (3.0) where you can just connect straight to their website 
PL: One of the things they’re going to try try to do is see if they can get information about particular users to change what advert you get here to one that sort of suits your tastes or your previous interests or previous things that you’ve bought (2.0) Cause at the moment that’s just 
C:  So it’ll be a personalised ad on there
PL: Yeah, absolutely
C: God, they’re really going to get you spending aren’t they? [laughs]
PL: Yeah (7.0)
C: Where’s it all going to go though? I mean it’s quite scary in a way, you know you sort of like you just like I way saying earlier you just you can spend hours just typing a letter and um if you don’t know what you’re doing I mean you just get so absorbed with it and even when you become so like on top of it all and you know exactly what’s going on um there’s not going to leave much time really for you to do anything else with your life cause you’re just going to spend the whole time on your bloody computer going backwards and forwards
PL: Do you think so, or do you think it will just make some boring things more efficient 
C: Oh I don’t know, computer games are (…) you know and that’s nothing that’s just leisure time (2.0) the amount of hours you might have put in and for what, you’re still pissed off with a bloody computer at the end of the day cause you’ve lost again you know [laughs]
PL: [laughs] Ah but you might win next time
C: Yeah (2.0) Everyone likes to have sort of like like part of the stage sometimes but I mean if everyone’s on the computer there’s not going to be any individual everyone’s going to be so into what they’re doing themselves, they’re not going to have time for anyone else are they?
PL: Do you think that’s going to, I mean isn’t that the way things are going anyway or are we more individualistic than we used to be?
C: Yeah I suppose we are but then at the same time we still go out there that we sort of have some identify with other people who you know we are who we are because of everything around us. If you take everything around us away it’s like going back into you, who are you, what am I, what am I all about? Um and er 
PL:  I mean but you could argue that those are changes that are happening anyway and that the computer’s just going to facilitate those or do you think the computer’s going to take it like into a new dimension
C: No I think it will take it definitely into a new dimension, that’s what I meant a minute ago when I said where’s it all going I mean you know where I mean we’re just right here at the beginning of it at the cusp of change and um yeah I think certainly in our lifetime you know things will be scarily further forward than you can even imagine you know. Like cause a hundred years ago people wouldn’t even imagine a TV you know 
PL:  Right
C: If someone mentioned to them they’d laugh you know
PL: Yes
C: Or if someone said oh we’re going to go on the moon it’s like we’re going to fly huh, it’s like yeah it’s like saying oh yeah well I’m going to become an alien next month you’d say oh yeah you know I’m going to have a different body, I’m going to actually I’m going to be you know [laughs] I’m going to be round the other side of the world in a few seconds
LM: What about say the people that you like you know say your brothers and sisters or whatever who might work with computers quite a lot, I mean do you think they’re sort of different from you in like in that way I mean how do you 
C: No, I think that I think the one who uses the computer most, my younger sister, who’s like you know dealing with it in her job every day I mean she’s always sort of like on the Internet to various people she knows you know on other jobs you know spends half her time like when she should be working, talking or communicating um I do think that she’s not even thinking that far ahead, she’s just dealing with everything as it’s coming you know. Everyone has different sort of like ways of seeing the world or whatever but um 
PL:  Right, right. So you think that the computer could in a sense hook into that that it could become an environment that you can 
C: Well it can be whatever you want it to be 
PL:  Yeah
C: Like your mind, you know you can be wherever you, you can be as positive or negative or you can be as dreamy or as together as possible because of its an extension of what’s going on up here um so even brainwashing, you could have subliminal messages when we go shopping. We used to say you know all this isn’t going to be doing something, isn’t doing something already you know. I’m not I’m not I’m not worried about it, I just sort of like I’m fascinated about it more than anything else but you do have sort of like but but but but out there. It’s like dangling carrot isn’t it. It’s like the more you get intrigued by something the more you want to know about it.
PL: Yeah I mean do you think there’s going to be any opposition to it, to any of this?
C: Opposition? Why do think it could be stopped? I think it’s like the atom bomb, you can’t deny you know that there is knowledge of how to make one and it’s just denying the people with the wrong attitude that information, but even then they can get it if they want it. You can’t stop it whatever’s going to happen’s going to happen isn’t it. Er, it’s just scary when you think you can just put it out there so easily and anyone can get the info so easily just exactly what’s going to happen or what’s going to become of everything.
PL: What about governments can they (1.0) is there anything they can do about it, or should they, or?
C: Er I don’t know because then it’s like well if we don’t have a right to privacy, what right do they have to deny us what we want you know, so it’s like a war with your on country or with your own government and I there’s always going to be someone cleverer than there is in parliament who’s going to be able to you know get round that one without anyone tracing them, cause we you know you’re going out of the body here, you’re not actually in your body, so you haven’t got that responsibility, you can be completely anonymous can’t you, you know.
PL: I mean that’s one of the other things that people use it for is an expanded way of communicating with groups of people so these chat groups there are various kinds (4.0)
LM: But how what about you know you started saying when you go to the supermarket is kind of like subliminal messages that manipulate 
C:  Yeah
LM: Like smells or whatever how they (…) shop
C: Which is silent although its it appears silent but its not actually silent and there’s something actually saying to you go on, buy yourself another treat today [laughs] you know you want to I mean you come out it’s like with far more than you ever anticipated buying
LM: So how do you sort of deal with that normally I mean
C: I don’t know, I come out with more than I had (…) of buying. I do, I do it all the time, you know I daren’t go into supermarkets sometimes unless I’m really before I go in I’m going and I’m going to get that and I’m coming out again. Or I’ve only got that much money so I can only buy that and then half the time the credit card comes out and I think oh I’ll just stick it on there er and you can get carried away. I mean as long as they don’t lock you up for things you know, why not, but at the same time um I think you know your control over your own little world if you’re in the middle of a field in the middle of nowhere where there’s nothing going on to affect you you are completely in control but if you step into anything else other than that you are being influenced all the time and um if something’s influencing you without your knowledge, so almost like brainwashing it’s um
PL: Well, brainwashing’s a bit on an interesting term, I mean would you call it do you think they’re going to be brainwashing us?
C: I don’t know, oh I just, I I don’t know (1.0) You know I mean like you can be fed things off a screen I should think through the eye without realising it if you can be fed things through the ear without realising it. I mean advertising does that all the time to us it tries to 
LM:  Yeah, but what about advertising. How do you feel like 
C:  Well we have a choice cause you can either flick through um er a magazine or you don’t pick it up at all so you don’t see any of the adverts or if you’re driving along you have no choice if you’re stuck in a traffic jam just to glance up and see a poster but then as soon as the traffic lights change then you carry on whereas with something like this you’re hooked and you’re looking at it (2.0) I mean even like you know if you get so advanced with computers and sort of like you know codes and tapping into things and coming out of things you know even you know things like getting wrong messages across to sort of people in government I mean there’s got to be security codes, really tight security codes that there’s always going to be someone out there trying to break them like that film Ghost d’you remember that film Ghost and that guy who does that big swindle on a computer and er all this talk as well about the millenium bug or whatever I mean how’s that going to affect the Internet, is there a millenium bug and what’s it going to do and where’s it going to leave us and all this is like knowledge out there if you want to find out about it I don’t know enough about it only bits and pieces like anything bit of this bit of that you know jigsaw puzzle there (13.0) This is like a spotlight shall we go to Spotlight?
PL: Yeah
LM: Yeah
C: Yeah let’s have a look (…) (6.0)
PL: Which category of 
C:  Young actresses
PL: Right
LM: What’ll it be? Spotlight.org maybe?
PL: Maybe, let’s try (4.0) No, it’s um 
C:  The Spotlight
PL: No, (…) Spotlight
C: It’s just the Spotlight Spotlight. Equity’s completely different it’s a union
PL: Yeah no that’s right, but I, ooh
C: It wouldn’t be The Spotlight?
PL: Search (…) Spotlight. There won’t be that much about spotlight, you’ll get all sorts of stuff about torches
C: Yeah [laughs] electrical equipment
PL: [laughs] (5.0)
LM: The search engine’s the slowest thing on the net I reckon (12.0)
PL: A couple of people I’d like to look up in there [laughs] (5.0) I remember friends doing their pictures for Spotlight (…) Which expression which one looks better
C: Yeah and everyone have different interpretations of what they look like you know like and they don’t like everything else that people say about them
LM: I think that Spotlight might be (…) our software (…)
C: It did say though on one of your main things Spotlight, was that 
LM:  That was what I’d typed in you know
C: Hmm (2.0) Spotlight directory
LM: (…) sort of Spotlight
C: No
(all laugh)
PL: There was another Spotlight directory (2.0) Oh dear (8.0)
LM: Spotlight on UCL(10.0) Nothing looks very positive they all say sort of 50% match with just one word (33.0) Have you got any better ideas as to what it might be?
PL: What else could we put in? Not spotlight
C: I don’t know at the beginning you know when you had all that complete menu did you go from Spotlight on that I don’t think you did. See you actually had it listed as part of one of the sites to visit.
LM: You mean like one of these?
C: No, no, no. Right at the beginning you’ve got Tescos blah blah blah blah blah blah blah and Spotlight
LM: Oh what you mean here Bookmarks
C: Yeah
LM: Oh this is um this is an anti-McDonalds thing McSpotlight is like a (…) [laughs] the absence of the real Spotlight. This is um (2.0) 
C:   Wait a minute let me just see if I’ve got the address cause um, what have I done with that information I did have it, (12.0)
PL: (…) Here we go (9.0) 
LM: (…)
PL: Oh we’ll look at that in a minute (30.0)
C: Yeah it’s called The Spotlight, so if you put The Spotlight
LM: (…)
C: Oh yeah
PL: Here it is, British Actors Register, oh that’s Ireland there must be one in Ireland
LM: This is the email address Spotlight.cd.com (4.0)
PL: British Actors British Actors register?
C: Yeah
PL: That’s Ireland it looks like (14.0) Actors database (4.0) Try that shall we? Is that a UK one? Yeah that might have a link to Spotlight
LM: The address is (…) (5.0) So, Spotlight.cd.com (3.0)
PL: Right try that (…) that’s back they must be changing that site so that connections not working anymore (8.0) Go right down to the bottom it might have a come over here go right down to the bottom it might have a link, no it doesn’t. Shall we try that address the cd one
LM: Spotlightcd.com (12.0)
PL: (…) Oops [laughs] Oops a Freudian slip
LM: It’s just com
PL: Oh was it (17.0) Looks possible
LM: Mmm
C: Yeah (…) Ah
PL: Right so you have to have a pin number you must have it you must have one 
LM: [laughs]
PL: (…)
(30.0)
C: (…) Well that’s not too (…) but mind you I suppose if you want to keep things private then you can but then if someone wants to get info on you then 
PL:  Well that’s right, that’s right they’re not going to be able to do it
LM: There’s no record to like get hold of you 
C:  Yeah I mean you’re going 
LM:  Whatever they can (…) 
C: If you’re putting yourself (…) making a difference if you’re on the Internet or not
PL: Well you can you can you can it says here you can become a registered user of it you see. You can pay to sort of and then you can search the database so if 
C: Oh I see
PL: So if you’re 
C:  A casting agent 
PL:  Casting you can yeah (4.0) Well that’s interesting I didn’t know about that. Let’s just show you this Mc (…)
C: What the McSpotlight?
PL: Yeah
C: Did you say that was (…) McDonalds?
PL: Yeah
C: God
PL: How do we get the things we’ve recently done?
LM: (…) (14.0)
C: So what’s all this to do with ordering McDonalds down the phone?
PL: Not quite [laughs]
C: McDonalds spends over 1.8 billion a year
LM: So this is like a site put up for anti-McDonalds campaigners and if (…) people who work for a London based Greenpeace organisation wh 
C:  Against meat and everything
LM: They sort of like leafleting around London about working conditions at McDonalds and things like that
C: Yeah (…)
LM: Its an ongoing sort of lawsuit with McDonalds and this is I think a bit of an offshoot
C: What’s this here, the guided tour
PL: Try it (25.0)
C: It’s great I mean I suppose you can access past sort of newspapers and things and get info rather than go into libraries and find they haven’t got copies of anymore
LM: Yes so they’ve got the whole transcript of like months and months of courtroom battles [laughs] so
PL: [laughs] If that’s what you’re interested in
LM: They’ve put quite a lot of information on that one (…)
C: So could you like now go into the sort of sort of like go sort of backlog through Daily Mail to an issue of blah blah blah blah back in (…)
PL: I’m not sure if the Daily Mail is online but some newspapers are like The Guardian
C: And how far back would they go?
PL: (2.0) I think the Times and The Guardian are trying to get all their back issues on eventually 
C:  Hmm right from the beginning? God wow. I mean we do this cause there’s the future goes on and on and on where are we going to store all this anyway and books and everything else you know. Wow
PL: (5.0) So yeah I mean I think you’re right that these sort of use kinds of uses you make of the Internet are very good and very interesting and some people would like to see the net develop like all of that without sort of the commercial side of it so that it can be a great useful sort of like database; a tool for us all to use to find out information and so on and so forth
LM: When you say without the commercial side what do you mean?
PL: Well originally the Internet was very much well not originally, originally it was a way that the american airforce communicated secretly with itself and in itself but it sort of grew out from there into the academic community
LM: Uh huh
PL: And it became the way the academic community communicated and then it spread from there to become broadly available to anyone who had a computer and a modem and it was not really commercially it wasn’t a commercial space at all there was nothing being sold or advertised or anything like that
LM: Yes
PL: And this is a new new sort of
C: Yeah but we’re lucky in that we don’t actually get bombarded with advertisements inbetween what we’re looking up every five minutes like we do with television so we do have a choice we don’t have to advertising doesn’t really work on the Internet unless you’re looking for something that you might want to see
PL: Right, so you think 
C:  So I think that there’s no harm in having that at all
PL: Right
C: And 
PL: What of these bannerads , you know the strip that we saw at one point. Every now and again there’s a strip
C: There was one at Vogue at Vogue which was quite nice there was all land lands end
PL: Oh Lands End that’s it
C: That had one and if you click on that it would take you there, but yeah but you don’t have to click it on it wouldn’t just come and say right you can have this for five minutes before you get to 
LM:  It wouldn’t interupt your use of something else
C: Yeah so no I think its I think why not have it completely open, it’s not fair to restrict it. I mean there’s no harm in advertisers going on it as long as it isn’t like you know television in the end where you have to sit through it whether you like it or not, cause then you know I was talking about being brainwashed earlier and that may well happen anyway but without you realising it. So if you’ve got advertisements cutting in every five minutes you know um that would be a bit mind numbing really 
PL: See some of the people who’ve really enjoyed the Internet and the way it’s been net tense, they’re objecting to this commercialisation they think it should be kept as a sort of spear of sort of communication between private individuals basically. So almost a new kind of forum for people to meet and talk perhaps and they’re worried that the commercial influence on the web will sort of corrupt that and that the commercial interest will take over from it, it will lose that character
C: Yeah but God they didn’t get on the bloody Internet without someone else deciding that something was going to happen I mean otherwise it could be just kept for you know the the airforce like you were talking about in America. You know, they’re lucky enough to so that so why them and no one else, I think it should be a freefall definitely, you can’t have like if you set a rule down they’re your rules that you’re ready to sort of crush any others that came before you so you’ve got to be ready to protect 
PL:  I don’t think they can, but I think that’s what they’d like
C: Yeah, yeah snobs on the computer [laughs]
PL: [laughs] I think they’re not actually snobs but anoraks
C: Yeah well whatever you want to call them, no (2.0) Otherwise it’s a bit like restricting 
PL:  What about what about kids, cause kids are using the Internet, do you think there’s an issue there about 
C:  Well kids can only be well its like your own brain you can only go with what information’s been fed to you beforehand and so if you’re in two classrooms away from computers and you’re the same age as like you know the kids next door and they happen to have a better teacher than you they’re going to come out with a lot more, if they’re intelligent I mean some kids take an extra, some people don’t need much cause they’re intelligent they just pick it up straight away but I do think there is an advantage in having a good teacher and er you know if kids are wise enough to use a computer whatever age and not actually having physical sex so I mean like you know you’re not actually harming anyone I don’t think and I think if your intention is such that you you have the knowhow to get more out of a computer than someone else I can’t see where the damage is going to be because if you’ve got an interest in something or you’ve got you know a bee in your bonnet you can search to find out about it and in life you don’t have to have a computer you can go out into the everyday world and be flashed at by a flasher at the age of you know ten or eleven like my sister and it didn’t fuck her up you know she’s fine now, it happened to her twice it’s weird sort of like four years later another one came her way and she went to court and everything but er you know we’re sometimes taken unaware in life and there’s a reason for everything that happens and I think you know it’s just part of your journey you’ve just got to deal with it and get on and I think to deny or to put a restriction on what’s fed to children and what children can make available to themselves is I don’t know if it’s a good thing cause the conditioning comes in doesn’t it and the restriction comes in and everything else. It’s not like you’re actually sitting the kid down showing them something they don’t want to look at and forcing them to read something and take information in. I think you know if it is so open that you can just be your own boss with it I don’t think there’s much harm as long as you don’t sort of start using your father’s credit card and ordering new cars to be turning up the next day [laughs] but then that can happen you know with the telephone I suppose so
PL: I think it’s interesting as well that I mean you haven’t used the Internet yourself but the things you’ve asked us to look at and the things you’ve been interested in are things that you already sort of know you know like Spotlight and um one of the things that I think’s going to happen is that new companies, new Internet magazines and so on and magazines for new companies that, you see once you can deliver groceries and someone can just get them on the Internet you don’t need a store so new companies might develop like that. Do you what do you think of that?
C: Yeah. Er what you mean so that you just have like an Argos without walking into Argos 
PL:  Yeah but it wouldn’t be Argos it would be like 
C: Cause Argos is like a Superstore but you don’t have to have the Superstore 
PL:  Yeah right, right
C: You just go in look at the magazine and it comes up from the warehouse
PL: Yeah right but it will just be but it won’t be a name that you know it could be new company, they’re bound to develop I think
C: Yeah
PL: You see um what I’m getting at is that part of what you like about it is that you can do what you already know and the sort of things that you sort of know and like and understand 
C: Yeah but at the same time as you were saying without the commercial side of it you can actually go in there and um say you wanted to find out about like you know some astrological um you know stars and sign format as of next week astrologically you know whatever and you want to find out about it
PL: Yeah
C: You know you could go in there and find out about it couldn’t you
PL: Yeah
C: If there was a sight for it
PL: Oh yeah yeah yeah
C: So I can you know that’s something I don’t know about but I could educate myself with with sort of like a basic interest in it already
PL: Yeah
LM: Yeah
C: Or if someone mentioned something and you think cor what’re they talking about and you get home and just type it in and find out about it
PL: [laughs] Yeah
C: When these things become this small it’ll be great, like a pager you know, tiny little thing
PL: Yeah but it will
C: Yeah it’ll just be round the planet info at the ready James Bond Jane Bond whatever, you know just everything. I think it’s really wicked but it’s like the amount of people using it if there is there comes a point where everyone’s got access to it all the time jamming you know everyone trying to get 
PL:  Yeah
C: Through at the same time, booking flights and getting on planes and you know meetings and it’s going to become more and more complicated isn’t it. It’s like it’s what it takes us takes us like you know if you decide in your head right I want to go to France tomorrow you have to pick up the phone you have to wait in a queue then you might get on that boat you might not you might get on that plane you might not if there’s a place for you and it all takes time and in that time everything’s put in in like you know all is all you know relative whereas if you’ve just got a little box and straightaway you’re going I want to fly tomorrow to France and it says yes straightaway, if there’s a hundred people doing that at once you’re going to have like too many people turning up to go on that plane and it’s not going to take off
PL: [laughs]
C: Cause there’s too many people for it so there’s going to have to be some sort of 
PL:  I think that’s right that that that I mean even on a sort of more mundane level like the the you’re going to have more shopping on the net and you’re going to have to have more deliveries and that’s going to have to be managed and arranged, you’re going to have to have warehouses
C: Yeah, I mean look at us today
PL: Yeah
C: Twenty years ago we wouldn’t dream of like you know going into a shop and feeling all the apples before you buy them and you know picking and then sort of like arguing 
PL:  No
C: About something at the other end um 
PL:  You’d ask for them and someone would 
C:  Yeah
PL: Give them to you
C: Yeah, so if we expect that now and never go (…) like that is the norm, we expect strawberries all year round and if we don’t get them it’s like sorry where’s the manager (1.0) I’m not like that those it’s the people who are [laughs] and er you know I mean it’s going to be there’s going to be more of that going on so there’s going to be more 
PL:  So you think it will feed that, you know like I want it now, I want everything?
C: Yeah, especially kids who don’t know any better
PL: Everything all the time
C: Yeah 
LM: (…) internationally 
C:  Yeah
LM: As well, so you can, any American brand whatever you can have
C: Mmm
LM: Delivered and you can shop for the best bargain and who will deliver it to you across the world the quickest or whatever
C: Mmm (2.0) But we are getting more and more fussy anyway I mean if it’s bloody er what d’you call it all this um um talk at the moment about genetically engineered food I mean I think if there’s good and bad about it but really at the end of the day the fields aren’t really in any fit state to grow the vegetables anymore, the soil’s 40 years chemical ridden
PL: Mmm
C: The pollution is you know so even if it’s organic it’s not really organic so if you can genetically engineer something that’s going to be 100 percent full of all its vitality as it should be and you can have it in the most perfect conditions without any maggots in it or whatever, clean and tidy there and you can eat it and it’s going to give you the best of health, why not? Just cause it’s not as we’ve known it um you know we are living in this sort of age now
PL: Yes
C: Becoming more and more you know chemical you know um chemical orientated you know all this stuff that goes on even like you know if your kitchen sink you know your fairy liquid now has got um [laughs] all these things that get your plates even cleaner so there’s no germs
(all laugh)
C: You go to the doctor and say excuse me but I’ve got dirt in my fingernails what am I going to do about it?
LM: [laughs]
C: [laughs] Could it cause anything serious?
LM: Yeah [laughs]
C: And it probably would because you’re so you know clean even a tiny little tiny little germ off the tree’s going to kill you, you’ll have to stay inside, oh God. Like people who live in India they they they’re they’re sort of up against tapeworms, all these disgusting horrible things everyday and they’re allergic to them, they’re not allergic they’re just immune like you know someone (…) went over and probably got tapeworm you know, I don’t even eat meat for God’s sake you know it’s like you’re just making yourself the more clean and the more fussy and the more you know condensed we get in our little world the more we’re making ourselves really like antibiotics prone to larger things that may not have touched us a hundred years ago, so I don’t know how it’s going to work with computers but I definitely think that something like that’s going to effect us in that way so that we do have expectations that if something’s not good enough that it’s not there like yesterday or before I even thought about it
LM: Do you think there’s going to this is something that’s going to sort of just I don’t know just talking about India made me think about this do you think this is the kind of development these kind of things are going to effect everybody the same way do you know what I mean?
C: Yeah, I think it’s going to like 
LM:  (…)
C: I think it will effect everyone on the planet and I do think even third world countries will eventually you know be completely wise to this. I mean aeroplanes started flying from America to England or from England to France or wherever they started from and now they’re everywhere on the planet you know, there’s not many places you can’t get to (1.0) and er so it will just become normality I should think and it would be beneficial especially if like coming up from Somerset on the train it’s beautiful because Somerset unlike whatever else I’ve seen of England on a train so far, there’s so much land and hardly any towns, little towns occasionally and it’s beautiful to see it, but you are really cut off without a car, you’re bloody stuck you know and so um you know you want maybe to get your milk everyday or whatever and like there’s something like the Internet and these silly shops that don’t you know if you’ve got someone coming to you saves every car going out like 100 cars to one car park to get a pint of milk each
PL: That’s right
C: You know, one car leaves and does everyone’s house like the old milkman who used to you know do the rounds everyone goes to the supermarket now, maybe it will go back the other way so that you don’t have to go out of the house much (5.0) Mmm, maybe you know if (…) time we’ll have something like Star Trek that will just like be transported to like eeeeeooooo
PL: [laughs]
C: Through the vibrations on the computer and (…) in your room, you don’t even have to have the (…) delivering [laughs] We’re laughing but I mean for God’s sake you know things like that happen I mean images and 
PL:  Yes
C: Voices and stuff so why shouldn’t something more solid 
PL:  Right, right, sure
C: Eventually
PL: Well (2.0) In a way it’s got a Sci Fi element to it
C: Yeah
PL: The whole thing
C: Yeah
PL: It’s like you were saying about aeroplanes and televisions would’ve seemed well, were Sci Fi a hundred years ago now
C: Mmm
PL: Are commonplace, yes
C: Everything is energy, it’s just using the right machine to sort of like get it to work for you isn’t it (3.0)
LM: I’ll just disconnect this as we’re not using the phone all the while
C: If someone was trying to phone me now would they have got through or not?
LM: No
C: No it would have been engaged
LM: It would be just like an engaged tone
PL: Would they be able to get through now?
LM: We’ve been on the phone for (…) [laughs] but now it’s like I’ve disconnected it (…)
C: Right, so should I pull that thing out and put the other thing back in?
LM: Yes
C: Yes
PL: (…) over that contacts things then
LM: [laughs] I don’t think that’s that’s not Spotlight so (…) pictures of all your
C: Actor friends
PL: No I don’t want to see their faces
LM: [laughs] You met Matt you (…) look up Matt (6.0) It’s quite a long tape you have a very long corridor. So which of those sort of things I mean do you think you’d ever use anything like that?
C: Oh I definitely I mean I 
LM:  Say you get on the net and you get a computer
C: The thing is I I mean mean at the moment it’s like I have no real reason to have an email as such although if someone said to me there you go I would say thank you very much and I wouldn’t sort of run away from it
PL: Right
C: It’s like I got a pager given to me you know years ago and I just thought well I wouldn’t go out and buy one but I’ve been given it and thank God I’ve got it cause it’s great, don’t have to pay any monthly fee or anything like that, haven’t got a mobile, haven’t got to worry about ear cancer all those things
LM: [laughs]
C: And I don’t have to speak to someone if I don’t want to
LM: Yes
C: But um I do think a computer is something that has been on my mind for the last couple of years and it’s just gone on and on and on and it’s a bit like eventually I will get one eventually I will get one and I haven’t been here much the last year anyway, so that’s been out the way a bit. Now I’m back and I’ve sort of like you know sorted my life out um it’s something that I’m interested in and I haven’t really like sort of right this is what I’ve got to do tomorrow, I’ve got to save up and I’ve got to go and buy one and I’ve got to have it and I’ve got to be on there and I’ve got to be typing in, but the more the world goes that way the more you’re not going to be able to cope without really having one and so um or it’s going to be to your advantage to have one and um you know the more time I have to sit around using it the more likely I’m going to buy one but at the moment I haven’t been there’s not been a real reason even workwise
LM: I’ll just show you the Tesco thing, this isn’t something that you actually have to use via the net
C: Yeah
LM: Sort of like a CD (…) Put a CD in and so you can load up onto the computer from it, so here there’s like this is the Tesco thing, have a look
C: So this, you couldn’t order from this you’d have to have be on
LM: Well you’d have to actually make the order you’d have to plug it in again
C: Yeah
LM: But it would only take you two seconds
C: But this can give you all the info about what they’ve got
LM: Yeah, so have a go like use the mouse
C: Okay, right let’s have a look and see what’s there, groceries, there you go
LM: This is sort of broad categories
C: So let’s say we want baked beans, various baked beans
LM: Yeah, beans baked [laughs] yeah
C: Say right Heinz baked beans pork sausages no, curried beans no, London Grill Heinz London Grill I’ve not heard about this [laughs] hey (…)
PL: What are they
LM: Oh I don’t know
C: Dunno, we’ll have to go and have a look. It’s quite good cause if you’re in the supermarket say we just pick up what you know 
PL:  Yeah 
C: And go round occasionally something catches your eye whereas here you’d be like ooh let’s order one of those and try it out you know [laughs] yeah it’s very good actually
LM: And you can do the same thing as with the other things you know you can you know click down there and it will actually no this list looks quite short so if you just go onto beans baked, (…) baked beans
C: So if I go up here now that’s going back the other way
LM: That’s the top of the list
C: And then if it 
LM:  That’s the bottom of the list and some of them are really really long and you can just scroll down pages and pages of different products
C: Uh huh, right chocolate half-coated biscuits, God yeah like they’ve got loads
LM: Yeah and you can just go down
C: God you could you could be a real bitch couldn’t you cause you could do this and if you didn’t like someone living next door, we did this with a pizza delivery once, to this man opposite us and he parked always used to park in front of our house, in front of our driveway
LM: [laughs]
C: He was a bastard he literally came up behind us like no I got here first you’ve got four cars and one house so you park there, so one night we ordered about six different varieties of pizza from different Pizza Huts and they all turned up at the same time. (…) all going up to this house like what’s happening they had no way of tracing us and we’re all spying out there over the road to him but you could order like six million packets of biscuits, pay for them and like get them 
delivered to his house
PL: No you can’t
C: You can’t do that?
PL: No, it’s a nice idea but 
C: Dog food or something
PL: What they’ve, when they set it up they it’s linked to your address so that you get like an account
C: Yeah
PL: An order account and that account’s linked to your address so you can’t 
C:  But what if your staying at a friend’s say twenty miles away and you’re saying oh it doesn’t matter I’ve got a card I can order it and 
PL: Well, they’d have to have this computer on there and you’d have to know what your number was to do it 
C:  Ah so wherever it got delivered they’d be able to trace where it came from
PL: Yeah
C: Oh I see right yeah
PL: So it’s not quite as flexible as that
C: Well that’s quite good really though
PL: Yes
(all laugh)
PL: Otherwise there’d be these huge grocery shops landing on people’s doors
C: Yeah
LM: But basically with the right (…) you can choose whatever you want, to click on that (7.0) and add it to your shopping basket and then you can do your shopping. This is the sort of shopping that’s sort of been building up
C: Yeah £124.93! I think I added three sort of toiletries, bagels, got lots of chocolate biscuits
LM: Yeah I don’t know how I managed to add three packets in one go, no but you have these all sort of things you’re looking for and it just does a running total you can click on anyone and say I don’t want the baby shampoo anymore
C: Yeah
LM: You can delete that cause it’s got it here and I’ve highlighted that, delete and it all just 
C:  Are you sure you wish to delete, yes I bloody am, I’ve gone through that and that already [laughs] Just checking just checking. I think I’ll just go to the supermarket actually
PL: [laughs]
LM: Much quicker, well that’s kind of how it works anyway
C: Yeah, no it’s good it’s really good I mean I think that’s brilliant so Tescos are already doing it, are Sainsbury’s?
LM: Yeah
C: But Marks and Sparks aren’t yet you said?
LM: No, they’ve got a website but 
C:  Actually I’ve got someone I deliver Marks not Marks and Sparks, yeah Marks and Sparks Earl Grey Tea to in Greece so could I do that through the Internet? So that I don’t have to buy it and send it I could just 
PL:  Not from Marks, no
LM: Lots of things they’re doing lots of gift services at the moment but like what Sainsburys haven’t got a full shopping services yet but they have got like chocolate and flowers and wine service, that you can order chocolates say you have to give your name your card number your card 
C:  But you want to send it to this address
LM: But then you can say send it to these people so in theory it’s quite possible
C: Yeah, so in future Marks will be doing it but they not at the moment doing 
LM:  I think they probably will
PL: Oh yeah, in the future yeah
C: Well then they won’t need me to send them anymore they can just do it themselves
LM: Yeah
PL: That’s right
LM: Yeah Marks and Spencers will almost certainly have an international kind of delivery
C: Yeah
LM: Because they’re already expanding internationally aren’t they, well I suppose
C: Are they not a French company anyway Marks and Spencer?
PL: No
C: They’re not, oh right
PL: But they have a Paris branch, but they’ve had that for a long time actually, that’s an Irish (…)
LM: That’s (…)
C: Oh is it
LM: Is it? How do you know that?
PL: One of the er well yeah one of the Marks and Spencers women married an Irish guy and set up a branch there
C: So have you got to go and do more of these tonight with people?
PL: No
C: Just one a night
PL: Yeah
C: And how many people are you seeing about this?
LM: Lots, about fifty
C: And then at the end of it all what’re you going to do with all the information you’ve got
LM: Well, we’ll work part of this the money we’ve got to do this research part of a much bigger project by um The Economics and Social Research Council to investigate all kind of digital things and all the impact of different kinds of new technology
C: Yeah
LM: Um sort of on everyday life, so there are some other projects going on, some of them are about what like some in education the impact of computers on education or in healthcare and kind of you know doctors diagnosing patients using kind of computer technology
PL: In the workplace
LM: Yeah all sorts of things and there’s this particular project on shopping and how it affects consumers, you know then we’ll you know report back to them what we think
C: And I mean can you at the moment sort of do like you can with the telephone if you’ve got the right facility just to put yourself on screen and talk to someone like around the world?
PL: Actually you can do that now with the Internet
C: With the Internet?
PL: Yes, and so someone’s obviously looking at that
C: With a so it’s like a video
PL: Yeah a little camera
C: Yeah
PL: You attach and then you can link up as long as they’ve got a camera too
C: Yeah
LM: Yeah, so you can certainly like kind of have online conversations or you could send messages on email and leave them and then somebody will reply
C: Oh yeah I know that, but I just meant like visually you’ve got this picture here but could you actually be talking to someone in America now like you can with television you see the satellite on TV
PL: Yes
C: You see news bulletins with them on
LM: You actually talk with the computer like?
PL: Oh yeah yeah
LM: I know you can have like you know you can have like you can have the same time discussions so you know by the time my flatmate talks these friends in the states will (…) a certain time of day when they’re both awake they can be talking online at the same time
C: Yeah
LM: And if he had a like a little camera then they could see
PL:  And a microphone as well
LM:  Him talk but can they
PL:  Yeah no there’s a microphone
LM: Right, so that’s already there
C: Oh it’s so exciting
PL: There’s voicemail as well now, so that you can send your message, you can dictate it to the computer
LM: You can do that on the phone though
C: Mmm
LM: But its cheaper because it’s like an email
PL: Also it just sits there and they can collect it when like email they’ll come and collect it later and they’ll hear your voice and they can reply to it
C: It’s much better as well cause if you’ve got a mobile and you’re away if someone’s phoning you from abroad you’ve got to pay for their phone call whereas with an email thing it might be like voice mapping
PL: That’s right
C: You don’t you just pay for your own
PL: Oh it’s all at local rates as well
LM: Yes and that’s a big difference
PL: That’s the other thing, big difference
C: Yeah
PL: It’s not a conversation, but you can
C: Yeah but you know you can phone them back if you need to
LM: So where do you work when you’re (…) films
C: Well my uncle’s in the business and he does um er sound editing and so he has like a lot of equipment at home in er Twickenham and occasionally he’s in Wardour Street at various offices doing bits and pieces and er so because I’ve been trying to get into all this bloody film business stuff I’ve just been there sort of like hanging around like general dogsbody
LM: Mmm
C: Just sort of like picking up bits and pieces and helping him out where he’s trying to do two things at once and er also a really good friend of mine an artist, well he’s not an artist, a film editor, Kerry, he’s doing the same thing and he’s just recently been working down in Beaconsfield and I was down there doing some life modelling with a good friend of mine called Camilla and um I just said oh look you know if you need any help he was going to be a referee if I got an interview but it’s not happened and um so I’ve been helping him as well so it’s a bit like all over the place
LM: Yeah (…) actor isn’t it really
C: Yeah, yeah, but um I I don’t I don’t think I could live any other way cause it’s something I think I’ve always wanted otherwise I would have gone for something safer
LM: Yeah sure
C: And um my parents are artists and all my brothers and sisters are all in art fields you know more to do with you know pottery or painting or knitwear or whatever whereas I’ve gone more the other way with other stuff, but um now I’m doing decoration interiors so that’s come back again. We’ve just done up Michael Crawford’s daughter’s house and we’re just about to do a juice bar up in the West End
LM: Oh really is there a new Juice Bar?
C: Yeah it sort of seems to be the thing now and they’ve got branches in Paris, all around the world so all these little things and everything I’ve had acting wise or anything that’s been connected with it has always been through jobs I’ve done from years before, so now it’s like it’s not just the acting world that’s going to bring back jobs for me it’s hopefully other fields of work I’m doing
LM: Yeah
C: Will pay off eventually, I hope
LM: So do you still consider yourself an actress, or do you think you’ve really kind of drifted 
C:  Um no I’m not a desparate actress anymore and like I’m an actress and I’m resting and I’m doing this it’s like no I’m an interior designer really decorator and um I do act, I don’t like to leave it out completely because you know people give you so much info from just saying one thing about acting it’s like okay 
(end of recording)


Ut2

User trial 2, 27.08.98, ABC1 Male 18-35, Low IT

A: Female interviewer
B: Male interviewer
C: Male interviewee

(...)
?: It’s a bit, it’s one of those sort of sofas you can’t get out of 
[laughter]
A: (...)
B: and sink into it (.)OK.  Do you want to start?
A: Sure, OK.  Um, well yeah, like I said, were trying to find out a little bit about electronic commerce, and there are not that many people sort of using it at the moment, so were just trying to find out, you know, what people think if we show them some of the things (...)-
C:-Right, right
A: So were looking at people with a whole range of backgrounds, some in computing, not in computing, may have never ever touched a computer before, whatever (.)  So, I don’t know, I mean, what’s your sort of background?-
C: -I’ve not been dragged kicking and screaming into the 21st century yet, erm sI’m, I er, I teach um, English to foreign students...
A: uh huh.
C: ...I work in town um, so there is, so there are computers in the college, and I do kind of (.) mess about from time to time, but I don’t really know much about them...
A: Right
C: ...So I’m a bit uneducated as far as computers go, and I, I mean I do have access to them, and I’ve, um, I’ve dabbled, but I’m not, you know (.) (...) I’m not, er, very, er, I don’t know much about them
A: Sure.  So what sort of bits and pieces have you sort of tried?
C: Um, well, um, just, you know, word processing, and that kind of thing, and getting your programs for languages and things like that, so, um, you can, you can answer questions and things like that, you know (.) you know, get, um, its kind of like um, textbooks, textbooks put on the screen, you know, for exercises for students and things like that on the screen, um, and friends have got internet, so I’ve looked at the internet from time to time, and, um, I’ve got friends who do graphics on computers; I’ve got friends that make music on computers...
B: Right 
C: You know, so I’ve seen all the things, but I don’t really know much about it myself, you know, I’ve dabbled but I don’t know much 
A: Mm.  What sort of things-
C: -I should do
A: ...have you had a look at on the internet
C: Sorry?
A: What sort of stuff have you looked at on the internet, just things your friends (...)
C: Um, anything that’s bizarre - things we can think of.  We just [laughs] (...) bizarre we can think about, we, we, we,er, type it in, you know, um, also things, I mean, er, medic things, you know, I’ve got er, a back problem, so I mean, kind of medical things, types of treatment, things like that, you know.  I mean theres all sorts of things, but I mean, I’ve had very limited access because I, I don’t have a computer...
A: Sure
C: ...So, you know, my friends spend hours on them, but I’ve, I’m happy to live with  a few minutes here and there
A: So all your friends sort of show you, the sort of, you know, how to get started searching for that kind of thing?
C: Well, yeah, I mean the thing is that, you know, when I go round, people have things set up and they do things quite quickly, but I don’t know actually, if I had a computer sitting in front of me I wouldn’t even know how to switch it on, you know, so I mean, its kind of, people do stuff, and um, I’ve seen it work, and I’m not, I’m not, I don’t know how to do it myself...
A: mmm
C: ...Computers still, um, confuse me a little bit (.) you know, um, and, frighten me, I guess, in a way, because I don’t think they are that easy to get into, even though they probably are
A: mmm
C: So I’m a bit of a heathen.
A:OK. Um, have you heard anything, sort of, from your friends, or in the media, anything about electronic shopping, like using the internet to shop, for buying things
C: mmm
A:...that sort of stuff
C: Um, oh my god, I used to hear things um, about like, um, something like, um,  the computer world, theres new computers being designed, so, well your computer and your TV eventually becoming one and um, and companies having, sort of, knowing like sizes and colour, tastes, preferences of members of the household, and stuff like that, and ordering stuff from, through, er through your TV.  Er, I know people who buy tickets and things like that through the internet, and (.) yeah I mean, that’s, that’s about the extent of it really
(.)
A: And is the sort of (...) 
?: Sorry, sorry

[interruption -someone brings some coffees in]

A: So yeah, is that sort of stuff you’ve read, or
C: Yeah, I was listening to something on GLR the other day about um, a guy talking about the development of advertising, about where its leading to, and the fact that, that, you know, that the companies will have details about us, and you know, so, adverts will be different from house to house, so they are going to have people wholl, you know, perhaps be targeted in different ways. I should imagine its the kind of way its going
A: mmm
C: So, is that the sort of thing you mean?
A: Mmm, yes, absolutely
C: Yeah, so, and (...) the way people buy things now, and you know
A: Yeah, I just sort of wondered whether youd heard about any of, any (...) stuff (...)
C: No, I don’t know actually any specific sites, I mean I havent spend that much time on the internet...
A: Yeah
C: I just know that people buy things, you know...
A: Yeah
C:...(...)
A: OK, so what would you sort of, I mean like, from what you’ve seen on the net,  how would you kind of imagine, what would you imagine you could do, sort of shopping
C: Um, 
[interruption]
C: Well I mean, sell tickets, like concert tickets, and things like that, and maybe, um, I don’t know tickets (...) tickets for events and things like that
A: Mm hm
C: Clothes, cars
A: Yeah [laughs] Pretty much anything [laughs]
C: Anything really, yeah
A: (...) Ill plug it in now, and have a look, actually
(...)
B: Er, I don’t know if we’ve got any-
C: - (...)
A: Have we got any lines (...)
(...)
A: OK
(...)
A: (...) have a look ( )
(...) [lots of bumping & crashing noises]
B: OK, so this is our computer, and what I’m going to do is - are we 0171 here?
C: 0181
B: Oh are we? (...) Right, I’m dialling into our computer at work, and through that computer we connect (...)
(.)
C: That’s a neat little thing, isn’t it?
B: (...)
C: What is it, what’s the make of it?
B: Its a Dell
C: Dell
B: Yeah, they don’t have, I think they may have one shop, but generally its a mail order 
C: Right
B: ...company
C: So are they good computers, Dell?
B: Yeah
C: (...)
B: Not that bad
A: (...) mainly at universities, and
C: Really?
B: No they are not, they are not advertised much.  I think that they are...  OK so its checking my password, so there, were in now, so now we can run a program that’s based on this computer that is a way of connecting up to the internet.  Here it is
(.)
B: There it goes.  This is a browser -  have you heard of, have you heard that term?
C: Yeah, I’ve heard the term,
B: (...)
C: But what is a browser?
B: Well, this is the browser.  Its a program...
C: Mm hm
B: ...that you can, that allows you to do a lot of things that are different things that you can do on the internet, so for example one of things that it does, it allows you to do bookmarking,
C: mm
B: make a list of sites that you’ve already been to
C: mm
B: Store them...
C: Oh really
B: ...so you can go directly
C: Oh right
B: (...) and it stores all that information.  And the other thing, well do, well look at some of those in a sec, the other thing it allows you to do is to search the web, so you can put in a term here a put a term here, you were saying that’s what you’ve done...
C: mm
B: ...at your friends, so that would have been on a browser, not necessarily this one
C: Right
B: Which has got this bit of it, its called a search engine, put that in, and then it goes off and finds all the...
C: Right
B: ...references to that term on the internet, or you can go, it has some structured things already set up for you, if you want news, personal finances, it will go and find it, so it does these different things. So, if we look at the bookmarks, these are some that we’ve already looked at, and these are some of the, er, shopping sites...
C: Right
B:...that we could do
A: (...)
C: Oh, um
B: Go on, you can have a go.  Twiddle this, just move it up and down until you find one that you want to try
C: I don’t know, um, records? (...)
(...)
A: They are quite pricey, though.  Put in Action Records, which is a British...
C: Yeah
A:...its like based in Preston or something
C: Oh right
A: OK, and then CD Now, that ones an American one
?: Well, either, either, any one really, I mean
A: have a go
C: Yeah, so what do I do?
A: You use this little thing to move around, like a cursor, and then just the one on the left, the button on the left
C: OK, all right, so, where are we now, um, lets see now,
(.)
A: That should go to it
B: So that’s stored the, um, address of the site, and now its just gone now
C: Oh right
B: and now were in
C: I assume its like an international, um (...) the United States
B: Mm hm
C: So what, you can, you can order any Cds here
B:Mm hm
C: Really...So do you pay by credit card or something
A: Yeah
C: And they send it to you.
A: Yeah
C: That’s pretty neat isn’t it? (.) Is it cheap?
A: Well, I mean they’ve listed all the prices for all the different things
B: Do you want to try something
A: Yeah, I mean
C: What, try um
B: What do you want to look up?
A: This is like you’re trying to find anything, just type it in there, like you did with the search engine...
C: Oh right
A: ...and you can go and see if they’ve got it,
C: OK
A: ...or you could just click on the (...)
C: All different...
A: Greatest Hits Cds
B: ...All different categories of music down there
C: I see (.) So what, you type in the name of the CD, or something like that
A: Yeah
C: Um, I don’t know, um
B: Or an artist
A: (...)
C: Can I put something bizarre in it (...)-
B: -Yeah, see if they’ve got it
C: OK, its a Spanish guy, but I don’t know whether it will have it.  Can I, shall I just type it out?
B: Just type the name in, yeah
C: Um, do you have put capitals or anything like that?
A&B: No
(.)
C: Is that spaced?
B: Yeah
(.)
C:OK
B: And then you click on Find It 
C: Um, so would I move it I move that-
B:-So you move that over, yeah, to there
C: (...) Press this left one?
B: Yeah, that’s it
C: So this, this is instead of the mouse (...)
B: Yeah, so
(.)
C: They’ve got it.  Great, its the one I wanted.  Brilliant
B: So now you can - that’s his album here
C: Can’t find it in England
B: And its only, its fourteen forty nine dollars, so...
A: (...)
B: ...that’s about ten quid
A: See what they’ve got there as well, its like a little thing if you like, I have no idea
C: [says Spanish name]
A: [attempts Spanish name] [laughs] then they’ve got a, sort of, little kind of engine inside that its sort of programmed inside the side, which means that if you click on that now, it will make a link, and it will
C: Tell you other things you might like that are similar.  Really?-
A: -Other things, it will hazard a guess that you like (...)
C: Really, shall we try it?  Yeah, yeah, OK, really
A: and also you’ve got -  Oh, with release date
C: So does that mean its not out yet?
A: I don’t know actually
B: (...)
C: Back in 1988
A: Yeah
B: Shall we try this first - see what else they recommend, see if its similar
(.)
B: So theres one
C: What’s that [name of artist] 
B: I don’t know who that is
C: So these are things they think that um, that you’re going to like as well
B: Yeah right, based on your selecting his, or was it hers
C: So are these, these places that you buy things from here, are they, I mean they are not actual stores that people walk into off the street, they are just kind of warehouses (...)
B: Right
A: Yeah
B: That’s right
C: So does that keep the cost down, I mean does that, because obviously without, you know, the staffing and all the rest of it, I mean are you talking about cutting costs with these sort of things?
A: Yeah, I mean, like CDs tend to be cheaper in the States anyway, but things (...) American flavoured (...)
C: Oh really
B: We can also
C: Its about ten quid isn’t it, so
B: We can select a track and sample it, see if it will do it
A: That’s like its kind of, you know, the ones its recommending-
C: -Oh right
A: (...) to kind of like (...)
B: Here we go
[very long pause]
[music]
B: Heard enough of that.  That’s not like him, is it
C: No
B: [laughs]
C: (...)
B: Um, that’s mono, and you can improve you can, if you pay you can improve the quality of the sound that you receive
C: If you pay?
B: Yeah.  Because this - what’s happened here is its linked to another company...
C: Mmm
B: ...this is one company that’s selling CDs
C: Yeah
B: This is another Internet company that just sell you the ability to play (...)
C: Oh, oh really
B: And this is their demo program, so...
C: Oh I see
B: ...It only gives mono...
C: Oh right
B: ...and it doesn’t work so well but if you pay...
C: Yeah
B: ...you get a proper (...)
C: You get the whole thing
B: Yeah
C: In proper digital, like CD kind of quality...
B: Digitalised stereo, whether - it depends on the...
C: Mmm
B:...what the phone lines are like, whether it comes over really well -
A: - (...) stopping and starting (...)
C: Mmm-
B: -Yeah, yeah
C: But then wouldn’t it be, then you could just sort of download it on to a, on to a DAT or something 
B:  Yeah, well that only gives you a portion of the song
C: Oh
B: Not the whole thing
C: Oh
B: Lets go back to your original choice - lets see (.) what’s it got to say about that
(.)
A: So its given me fifty cents off (...) [laughs] Is it just new out?
C: No, its a couple of years ago in Spain, but, um, um, its probably not out - I didn’t know it was out at all in England, because I’ve been trying to get hold of it in England, but, um
B: Well try the English site, shall we?  See if we can get it there
A: Yeah
B: There it is.  So that lists the tracks, and gives you the album cover
A: With a lot of them it would give you, like, a few samples.  Say it had ten tracks...
C: Oh right
A: ...it might give you clips from like, five or six of those
C: Oh really? (.) That’s great
A: In the same way that if you were in the shop you could (...)-
C: - oh right, listen to it.  That’s great (...)
B: Lets see if its got any web links.  He might have his own website...
C: Oh I see
B: ...and you could find out more (.)  There we are.  (.) No, it doesn’t look like that’s given us much. No
A: Or like a kind of Spanish website (...)
B: Yeah
(.)
B: So if you want to find out more about the artist, or (.) there we are
(.)
A: (...)
C: Is that so? (.)  Oh, oh right
B: Must be popular in Spain
C: (...)
A: Oh right
B: Anyway, that’s CD Now taking you back to the (.)  And you can meet - post messages to other fans, and join the fanclub and stuff [laughs] if you want to [laughter]  How much is it? (.) Oh that’s
A: That’s a link
B: That’s a link back to CD Now.  Can we try that? (.) (...) what’s that now?  This is the British version 
C: Oh right
A: Well I mean its actually a record store in Preston, but it doesn’t mean...
B: Oh is it?
A: ...they’ve got all the... 
C: Oh right
A: ...(...) in the shop, I mean I phoned up the shop once
B: Oh right
C: Really?
A: their book shopping facilities (...)
?: So
A: ... because they’d obviously decided to get completely on the net...
C: Oh right
A: ...and just expand their, you know, so...
?: (...)
A: ...not many people in Preston buy things in there
C: But what stops everyone doing it?  Why don’t all the big companies just start doing it, I mean obviously if they - then they...
A: Most of them are getting (...) on it now
C: Virgin and all those, all these huge companies and they’d monopolise it, wouldn’t they?
A: Mmm
[bang]
B: Its a good question
A: I don’t know; its not entirely clear how its going to pan out really (.) CD Now didn’t exist before the, you know...
?: Yeah
A: ...somebody had an idea to have a CD 
C: ...Sell CDs, oh yeah
A: ...on the, on the net
C: Oh right
A: Somebody obviously here has thought why don’t we have a website
C: Mmm
A: And then we could sell things from it, so (.) you know, (...)
C: So suddenly, I mean, if it was (...) everyones going to start doing it so (...)
A: (...) advantage (...)
C: Yeah
A: Were not really sure
C: Oh right
A: [laughs]
(.)
B: I think partly it depends, because you’ve got to have a computer, and...
C: Mmm
B: and have an internet provider...
C: Mmm
B:...but the number of people isn’t perhaps big enough yet to interest...
C: Oh I see (...)
B: ...like, Virgin Records
C: Oh right
B: Compared to the body of membership out of their-
C: -Of their, their normal stores, yeah
B: ... shops, but as more people get on...
C: Mmm
B: ...then it will be interesting
A: Yeah, and maybe at the moment (...) Records stand to gain more...
B: Mmm, mmm
A:...than they could lose...
B&C: Yeah
A:...with the money they’d spend on having a website, because they are so small
C: Right
A: I mean, maybe right now, Virgin would have to probably spend so much money to have the kind of operation running it would want to do
C: Oh right
A: (...)
C: The big American one, can you order the American ones from England?
(.)
A: You can order from that site, and then they will ship them to you
C: Oh, oh they will
B: Oh yeah
A: Its one of the things they’ve got actually, so they’ve changed since they first set up CD Now - they’ve got a European base as well, like a European warehouse, so if they’ve got it in the European warehouse...
C: Mmm
A: ...it would cost less (...)
C: Oh, oh right
A: Because I think that would maybe would put some people off
B: Ill just use this Greatest Hits one to illustrate it - once you chose - you’ve chosen something you want (.)
A:  I mean ten dollars is really cheap, with the rate of the dollar at the moment climbing - about five or six pounds
C: Is it, is it two to one now
A: Nearly
C: Really
A: I might be wrong
C: Yeah they were actually (...)-
B: One point six
C: It is really strong, sorry
B: One point six
C: Oh right
A: Right
B: Not bad though
(.)
B: So then when you took - oh, I can’t get it to buy it, how do I
A: I think you (...)
B: Do I?
A: Click twice to order
B: Oh right - so there we are (.)  So, this is there (.)  So this is what you - you can put this one like in your shopping basket...
C: Oh right
B: ...and go and select some more, put more in
C: Oh
B: And - or you can put, and you can continue shopping or Proceed to Checkout
C: [laughs]
B: There we are.  Then you fill in Create A New Account - you have to have an account with them
C: Oh I see
B: You can create that online, and, and then
A: (...)
B: So then you have to have an account with them
C: This is the English one?
B: No, this is the American one
C: Oh, the American one.  Oh right
(.)
B: So you (...)
(.)
B: What else would you like to see?
C: Maybe, er, travel
B: Yeah (.) (...) that’s sort of like travel information, isn’t it? Have we got Barclay Square? -
A: Theres Thomas Cook online, um...
B: (...)
A: And Airline Network as well, (...)
B: Oh shall we - wheres Airline Network? up here 
C: (...)
B: Right, lets try that
A: Oh my goodness (...)
(.)
B: So (...)
C: Oh yeah?
A: Yeah, what do you fancy? [laughs]
C: Cuba 
B: Do we have to register?
(.)
A: Hmm
B: (...)
A: (...) you just (...)
B: Ill try it.  Here we go
(.)
B:Right, so now we have to fill in this form, so, departure airport, we can get a list.  Oh that’s nice, then you can click on the map.  We want to go from Heathrow, yeah?
C: Mmhm
B: (...)
C: Oh that’s great
B: Yeah
C: It fills that bit in for you 
[laughter]
A: (...)
B: Journey - no, no I don’t think we want to come back yet (...)
C: Lets just go one way [laughs]
B: And, um, if you don’t care which airline it is we can just, say, go out with a note 
C: Oh right
B: And search the different airlines
A: (...) specify what class you travel 
(.)
B: I think wed better go economy
C: Yeah
B: [laughs]
(.)
B: What enhanced class?
C: Enhanced, (...) first class
B: Oh is it?
C: I don’t know
[laughter]
B: Did I write cup?  I thought I wrote Cuba
C: Then its (...) but you did write Cuba
B: Yeah.  Maybe they havent got anything for Cuba.  Yeah, I did.  Yes, I wonder if its the airport that’s the destination or the country
(.)
A: Hmm
(.)
B: Destination code - ah.  (.)  It is a bit complicated, isn’t it? (.)  What have I done wrong?
C: Have you got to put capital letters on it? 
B: No, I shouldnt think its that.  It says here clicking on List will give you a list of the available choices for that entry (.)
A: Oh well if you kind of (...) see star, then press List?
B: Ill try it
A: Mm hm
(.)
B: Oh there we go, ah I see.  We want Havana, don’t we?
C: Oh, right 
B: Its the airport that 
C: Oh I see
B: That they are...So that’s why didn’t get it.  Gor, blimey what’s that?
C: (...)
B: Of course they’ve only given us the Cs 
C: Oh right
[laughter]
A: Its not very helpful (...)
C: (...)
(.)
B: Is that how you spell it?
C: Yeah
(.)
B: Ah, now were talking.  (.)  Oh  (.)  And theres your choice
C: Oh right.
B: Air France, Iberia
C: (...)
B: London (...)
C: (...)
B: Its not cheap is it?
C: Is it because its summer?
B: Yeah, it will be more expensive now because its a holiday destination.  London Gatwick - lets try that one (.) Iberia (.) 29th of August (.) That’s it.  So then you
can book it if you register.
C: That’s great
B: Mmm
C: So how do you book it?  You - credit card again, is it?  So, do you do that over the phone, or do you do it on the - how do you do that?  You type in the credit card number on there
A: Yeah, usually they’ve got sort of booking forms
C: Oh, I see
B: A form comes up like that one, and you just type it in
C: Its so easy isn’t it, having stuff like that
(.)
B: Lets look at the um (.) um, Loot, that’s an interesting one.  (.)  The freebie newspaper
C: So you  can get Loot on here every day?  Instead of buying Loot you can get it on here?  That’s good
(.)
B: And you can place an ad as well, if you want
C: Oh really
B: Again, you can click that and a form comes up, and you can write in the description and send it in (.)  Are you after anything (...)
C: Um, I can think of (.) a computer [laughter]
B: I wonder if they’ve got any computers - well try it
A: I’m sure they have (.) Find a Dell (...)
C: Yeah
B: Don’t want a new one (.)  Here we go
[talking together]
B:...and nearly new (.) Oh, these are computer desks, yeah
C: (...)
B: storage (...) table, workspace, desk, desk
C: No, they havent got any actual computers
A: (...)
B: It would have come up on that, wouldn’t it?  Oh hang on
(...)
B: I just put computer in (.) If we put in Apple well get all sorts of things.  We can put IBM in
C: Do you want to get that list again, beginning with the one you just had on
B: Yeah
C: Because, er, I want to get a desk and a chair [laughs], as well as that actually
(.)
B: Knitting Machine - I don’t think this has quite worked.  (...) Previous
C: Desk and Chair, black, £40.  That’s in Manchester (...)
B: Oh
C:  (...) to get a chair and a desk
B: But that’s Loot, so, and again you can
C: That’s great
(.)
B: And (.) Oh yeah, heres the site (.) McSpotlight, which is the, um, campaign against McDonalds
C: Oh, campaign against McDonalds?  Really?  What’s that?  Is that those two guys who were taking them to court?  Still those two guys?  What, what is it about?
B: I think they distributed some information about McDonalds ruining the rainforest [laughs]
C: Oh really?
B: And what they did there
A: That was a libel case wasn’t it, where they -
B: - McDonalds sued them
A: ...where McDonalds was suing them for libel
C: Oh right
A: Saying that they’d (...)
(.)
B: So this is, um, campaigns and company
C: This is all about McDonalds, then is it?  McDonalds website?
B: Well, it’s not McDonalds website, it’s the website of the people who were against them
C: Oh really?
B: Yeah, campaign against McDonalds, so this is, we can read about which - what campaigns they’ve got (.) its quite - quite a well done site, isn’t it?
A: Mmm
C: Yeah
B: As professional as this 
A: Yeah
C: So these are these, these guys whore doing the, um - its amazing the er, the er, information you’ve got access to as well
B: Mmm
(.)
C: One thing I don’t understand is, for example, things like um, newspapers which you can access (...)
B: Mmm
C: I know you can get um, international newspapers...
B: Mmm, mmm
C: ...How do they, how do they make the money if people just access it for free?
B: I don’t know.  I think they, they must think that people still want to buy the newspaper itself...
C: Yeah
B: ...but-
C: - You can just read it.  You can just browse through it every day on the internet (...)
B: I think that you can - I don’t know if the whole newspaper is put on, on the day of sale.  You can get headlines and selected articles, because we looked at Vogue last time, didn’t we?
A: Yeah
B: And it just had a summary of the contents, it didn’t actually have the articles themselves -
C: -Oh right, right
A: I think some are much more sort of extensive than others, I think like the FT is quite (...)
C: Really?
A: (...)
C: Yeah
A: (...)
(.)
B: So these are the issues that they are concerned about with McDonalds
A: (...) quite a shocking site, saying (...)
C: Oh right
A: ...you can probably buy sort of anti-McDonalds (...)
C: Oh right
A: ...and T-shirts, but [laughs]
C: This is great, then
B: That must be about the food; lets see what they are saying about McDonalds burgers (.) McDonalds Case, Defendants Case, (...) Judgement - so you can read about the case -
C: -(...)
B: Yeah, yeah
C: And did they lose?
B: It was a mixed judgement
C: Was it?
B: Mm
A: (...)
B: Oh, and then heres the witnesses... 
C: Incredible, isn’t it
B: ...testimony
A: [laughs]
B: You can read it
A: (...)
B: Press articles about the case
C: (...)
B: Books, report, interviews (.) Yeah
C: You don’t have any information here about the Hoover case do you? The Hoover trial?  You know, about taking Hoover to court
A: Oh I remember - about that flights thing?
B: Oh yeah
C: (...) never, ever
A: Really?
C: Yeah, and everyone I knew got ripped off about it, and then, then we were sent, er, information from, er, a group who, er, were doing the same sort of thing - they were, they were taking Hoover to court, so they were sort of massing as many people together as possible...
A: Mmm hmm
C: ... with all these people they were going to do something.  I’ve never heard anything more and that was about three or four years ago, now just that, I just mentioned that, I just wondered if they have a...
B: Well that’s the sort of thing you could organise on the internet quite well
C: They’ve just got away with it, havent they?
(.)
B: This is Hoover -
A: -I remember that on TV
B: Well you can get - this is Hoovers own website
A: [laughs]
C: Oh right, OK
B: I don’t think they will have it on there
(...)
B: (...)
(.) [keyboard sounds]
C: (...) different things called Hoover.  Its not just the Hoover Hoover is it?
A: No!
B: You get all the Hoovers - anything that’s Hoover
C: Is there anything Hooverish?
B: The Hoover Dam [laughs]
C: 280 000 matches for Hoover
B: [laughs]
A: (...)
B: [laughs]
(.)
B: UCL - Research Seminars? (.) what? [laughs] Two Centuries of Taxes and Spending - A Causal Investigation of the Federal Budget Process
A: [laughs]
(.)
B: No (.) I mean, it might be there but mixed in with two hundred and eight -
C: -Yeah 
B: ...thousand.  What you can do is narrow the search down - but that’s interesting
(.)
B: Hoover fences?
C: Don’t worry about it, its not (...) it would take the rest of our lives
B: That’s right, no
C: I just thought, I thought there might be something (...)
B: Yeah I know, that’s right - but in a sense that’s one of the frustrations of the internet, that
C: Oh, theres so many things
B: Yeah, right, that’s
A: Or kind of knowing how to find things -
C:Yeah
B: How do you find it
C: Oh yeah
A: (...)
B: Its probably out there
A: If you’ve got the address, you know, if you have a letter-
C: -Oh right
A: ...saying check out our website
C: Right
A: you can just go straight to it
C: That’s what I remember from last time, when I was at my friends, for example...
B: Mmm
C: ...wed look at something and thered be a hundred thousand er, entries...
B: Mmm
C: ...and then wed sort of access it - wed look at a few of them, and we hadnt even sort of scratched the surface
B: Mmm
C: And wed also then try and get back into something that wed seen before...
A: Mmm
C:  ...and wed never get back to it - there were sort of three or four different ways of getting to it and, and wed never find the route back again
B: Mmm
C: That was one thing I remember.  Is that true?
A: -Some of them are really easy to kind of trace back
B: -Well that’s what we’ve, what we’ve just experienced
C: Right
A: But sometimes you will - yeah, you wont be able to kind of go back (...)
C: Is there, is there a sort of, is there any way of getting back when you’ve found them?  Is there...
B: Well
C: ...a (...) or something you can do to
B: You see what you can do is what we did with this...
C: On the bookmark?
B: (...) you can add it to the bookmarks so then it will always be there and you can always go back...
C: Oh I see
B: ...to it
C: That’s the one - oh, I see
(.)
B: Clinique
A: (...)
B: What’s LondonWide?
A: That’s a clothes one
(.)
B: and Adbusters [?]
A: Adbusters is quite fun
B: Lets have a look at that
(.)
A: And yeah also, if you click down some of these it should list all you’ve just been to...
C: Oh really?
A: ...So if it ends up that you can’t use kind of the back and forwards...
C: Oh right
A: ...buttons it might just be able to kind of re-load the site
B: So this is another anti-commerce site (...) >World War III will be a guerilla information war with no division between military and civilian population - that’s very cheerful.  I think they’ve got frames on this
A: Mm hm (.) I think Adbusters is a magazine isn’t it?
B: Mm hm
A: Its a kind of 
(.)
B: Spoof ads, they do spoof ads.  Lets check those out 
(.)
C: Actually this is a lot quicker also than the last one I saw, I suppose another comment I had before is that it seems to take ages to get into everything.  It seems to be - tonight, you seem to be getting into things quite quickly (.) There has been times when er, it seems to take forever
(.)
A: Yeah, I think that possibly it depends on what (...) modem speed
C: Really
A: Ones just how busy it is
C: Oh right
A: (...) sites
B: I’ve noticed it getting quicker while we’ve been doing this project, actually
A: Mmm
B: So, I mean its something they are working on by putting in more computers and links...
C: Oh OK, so its (...)
B: ...and making it work more quickly
B: Yes, but that’s offset by the number of people who are on it, which is also increasing.  So heres their spoof ads
A: Click on (...)
B: Yeah, I should think so.  I wanted the vodka one (.) Oh, and the Obsession
C: What’s Obsession?
B: That’s perfumes, Obsessions, isn’t it?  Kate Moss advertises (.) Its sort of their spoof on that 
(.)
C: What’s that, a toilet?
B: I don’t know
(.)
B: I’m not quite getting that one, are you?
C: no
B: [laughs]
[clicking]
B: Yeah, that is a toilet, you’re right, isn’t it?
A: I’m not sure what that (...)
C: Is she going to be sick? (...)
B: Possibly, yeah (.) er, is it anorexia - or bulimia.  Its an obsessive disorder
C: Oh right
B: Obsession 
A: Where are all the Nike ones?
C: That’s very subtle, isn’t it?
B: Quite subtle [laughter] It took us a while 
C: Yeah
B: To get that
A: Its not very anti-consumer (...)
B: Oh yeah - its saying that this obsession with the body and linking it to anorexia - that’s it
A: It had a good Spice Girls one (...)
C: Did it?
A: Yeah
C: Spice Girls advert?
A: Yeah, it was a spoof one
C: (...) What did it do?
A: I can’t remember, but it was sort of, slightly, I think maybe more the basis for the Spice Girls...
C: Oh, OK, Oh right
A: sort of 
(.)
B: Now that looks like it might be linked to impotence or something
C: Oh, yeah 
[laughter]
B: Is this the Spice Girls one?  No that’s alcohol (.) lets try that one
(.)
B: Nice, er, pictures
(.)
(...)
B: Yep
C: William Shakespeare [laughs]
B: I don’t entirely agree with that, but still, we wont go into that (.) Yeah, well that’s fun (.) So that’s not like a campaign against a specific, like McDonalds was...
C: Right 
B: ...a campaign against a specific company
C: Its advertising in general
B: Right. Its quite general kind of critique
C: So who, who, who is (...)this sort of thing
B: [laughs]
C: Who are they?
B:Well I don’t know, that’s an interesting question, shall we try and find out? Adbusters Information
C: (...)
B: Who are you? [laughs]
C: What are they in it for?
B: [laughs]
C: (...)
B: They are going to uncool their images with uncommercials
(...)
(.)
B: Ambitious
C: Yeah (...) subversive sales (...)
B: (...) [laughs]
(.)
B: That’s good, I want to join [laughs] So then you can contact them and you can write
C: So who are these people who do this kind of thing - is it expensive for them to do that?  Is it - are these just 
B: Not really
C: People sitting around the house, having fun
B: Mmm
C: Can you, can you just put a website together without it costing a lot of money - it doesn’t cost money to do this sort of thing?
B: Well, it costs a small amount, but not much
C: Really?
B: I mean, if you can, if you know how to do the programming
A: Yeah, and assuming you’ve got all the technology anyway...
B: If you’ve got a computer
A: ...you’ve got a computer, you’ve got a modem
C: Yeah
A: You’ve got access to a phone line
C: So you, you could 
A: You’ve got the sort of, like a (...) software package that you can use to design web pages (...) say you buy a thousand pounds worth of desktop computer...
C: Right
A: ...these days you will get an internet connection, and...
C: Really?
A: ...the Internet, and a design package for (...)
C: Oh, you get a design package so you can design your own ebsites?
A: Yeah
B: Mm hm
C: Oh right, at random, oh right
A: So you know when like you’re word processing...
C: Yeah
A: ...and you’re using Word and you’ve got a blank document and just typing away?
C: Right
A: Instead of saving it as a Word document
C: Right
A: These days theres usually the option of saving it as an html document
C: Oh
A: Which is like a document where you can
C: access
A: Turn into a webpage
C: Really
A: Because you know, its coded, like in html (...)
C: Oh I see, because that was one thing I was thinking as well, I mean I was (...) experience sort of browsing through it, and you might get some sheep farmer somewhere in the outer Hebrides whos put on the internet some cure for kind of, some, some foot disease that a cows got
B: Mmm
A: Oh yeah
C: I was thinking well, how, how - what provoked that woman to, to - you know, to go to the bother to do that unless it would be quite easy to do it, because I thought 
B: Oh yes, I mean one example, a commercial example is like bed and breakfasts...
C: Mmm
B: ...places, and they take a picture of their place...
C: Oh right
B: ...and put a description in, and they have a site
C: Really?
B: They set that all up
C: Oh right
B: So then they are on, and if, if - they can then pay to be in groups of sites, like, say they are in East Anglia they can get on to the East Anglia website... 
C: Oh I see
B: ...and they get a link to their own site
C: Right
B: And you can check that out
C: Excellent
B: So this could, it could indeed be just someone (...)
C: Right
B: Just sort of set it up, and that’s one of the interesting things about the internet
C: So anyones got access to it?
B: Yeah
C: Oh right
B: You can’t tell whether they are
C: A big company or a small company or whatever
B: Yeah
C: OK, that’s, that’s
B: Like CD Now, we don’t know what it looks like
C: Yeah
B: We’ve never seen it [coughs] it could be a, a
A: Somebodys garage
B: A garage in
C: Yeah
A: in Wisconsin [laughs]
C: Yeah
B: Well, they do have big garages in Wisconsin, I suppose
A: [laughs] (.) Well, yeah, no the difference, I suppose is of knowing where, how to kind of get hold of them, like we were saying earlier if you know the address you just type it in
C: Right
A: So some shops its quite easy to have a guess; if you want to go and check out Marks and Spencers...
C: Right
A: ...you can hazard a guess its going to be www.marksandspencers.com or something
C: Sure
A: But that’s, you know, if its such and such in a little cottage holiday home in East Anglia, its going to be a lot harder to
C: To work out (...)
A: imagine what it... 
C: Oh I see, right
A:  ...How do I get that?
C: Right
B: Anyway, Ill show you another site now, because I havent, because I’ve just come offline now, so were not connected, and heres Tescos
C: What do you mean, you’ve come offline?
B: I’ve disconnected us from the (...)
B: ...computer, they send you a CD and you load it up onto your computer
C: Oh, I see
B: And what you do is you do your shop, make up a (.) a basket of shopping
C: Oh, I see
B: And then you go on to the internet and send it to them
C: Oh right
B: So, you don’t have to be online to do the actual shopping
C: Oh I see, I see
B: But once you’re ready you can just send the order online.  So in this one you can search for goods like Choose A..., er, oh, I don’t know, lets have some frozen food. Oh, Chow Mein - frozen chow mein, what a weird idea.  Right, and that’s all the varieties (...) varieties of frozen chow mein
C: Oh I see
B: So then if you fancy Ross Oriental Express Egg Fried Rice or Ross Oriental Express Chow Mein Mix you can click on it (.) Did that go?  Yes, and it puts it onto your shopping, into your shopping basket
C: Oh wow
B: So then you can go to your shopping basket and it should be there (.) What is that? Hmm, well it is there, I’m sure 
C: So how does this stuff turn up at your house?
B: Right, it has to be - its delivered
C: Oh really?
B: So they, they basically pack it all up into bags
C: Right
B: Put it into a bag, and deliver it er, to your house.  You can tell them a two hour slot when you want it delivered
C: Right
B: Say, tomorrow between 7 and 9, or whatever, and then it will, it just turns up, and you...
C: But do they charge you more for that?
B: Five pounds
C: Really?
B: For the delivery
C: Delivery
B: Yeah
(.)
B: So what do you think?
C: Umm, its brilliant
B: OK
C: Yes, um, amazing, I mean it probably would be coming to the same money that you were going to spend before
B: Mmm
C: But (...) I mean theres, theres a tube between me and a CD store in the West End [laughter] which keeps me away from it, but if its in the house, er its great, I mean, its amazing isn’t it?
A: Mmm
C: You can’t deny it.  (.) I guess you could look for just about anything
B: Mmm
C: (...)
B: And er, who do you think is sort of using it now, I mean
C: Whos using it now?  Who do I think is using it now?
B: Mmm
C: I don’t know, I mean I don’t know what sort of people have...
B: Mmm
C: ...the Internet, um, I don’t know
B: Mmm, do you think it will expand and sort of develop?
C: I think it has to, it has to, I mean everybody seems to be getting computers at home now and spending as a matter of course
B: Mmm
C: And you know, and students now getting themselves a computer when five years ago they wouldn’t, so I mean that’s just going to expand into kind of, you know, family life and...
B: Mmm, mmm
C: (.) Yeah, it must be.   I mean, its strange - I’ve, I’ve been coming through, I mean, I had, for a long time I didn’t want to have a computer in the house you know, I didn’t want to because of just the whole thing of its like a sort of a tidal wave that’s happening, and, and people doing it...
B: Right
C: ...and I kind of tend to fight against things that...
B: Right
C: ...that I wasn’t told to, you know, I don’t go and see Hollywood blockbuster movies...
B: Right
C: ...and things like that, because, you know if you’re told that something - you should be doing something...
B: Mmm
C: ...I don’t, so I wasn’t doing it for a long time, but I mean you can see the advantages of it (.) plus points to it
B: So do you think, I mean, so why would you want to resist it?  Just - is it just because it has a popular feel, or do you think theres some possible dangers in it, or
C: Well, I have friends who spend a lot of time on computers, you know, playing computer games and things like this...
B: Yeah
C: ...and they don’t seem to do anything else, you know, and...
B: Mmm
C: ...I mean, um, you know, people who spend fifty quid on a flight simulator or something
B: Yeah
C: Id rather spend fifty quid and get in a plane, and you know, and, and spend an hour, spend an hour in, in - you know, I think a lot of people use it as a substitute for actual real life...
B: (...)
C: ...and I know one of my friends is so stuck on the computer all day.  I have friends who work on them all day...
B: Mmm
C: ...and then they play on them all night... 
B: Mmm
C: ...and, um, I find it really, I just like, you know, I mean, I like nature and I like trees...
B: Mmm
C: ...and I like moving around, and I like breathing fresh air, and I like doing things, and I find, I don’t know, I always associate it with kind of um, being stuck indoors, you know
B: Mmm
C: You know, (...) pleasure in, in that.  So, I don’t know, theres many things that I um, I don’t know
A: What about the shopping side of it, I mean, hows, you know, hows - like what’s your normal experience of shopping like, do you enjoy shopping, or
C: Um, not really (.) Um, what kind of shopping?  Like food shopping, things like that?
A: (...)
C: Food shopping I don’t enjoy, um, I mean, I like, but I like things like Cds for example, we were looking at, I like going to CD shops, I like walking round and browsing, and, and, being in town and seeing people and getting the tube and walking down the street, and so I like that kind of er...
A: Mmm
C: ...that side so it would take a bit of the fun out of shopping...
A: Mmm
C: ...as well because I actually like that, but it’s, you know, for more sheer convenience, I mean it’s er, in efficiency it’s probably better
A: Mm hm
C: This form of shopping.  I don’t know -  it has its plus points and its negative points - I mean, er it might, it might convince me to spend money that I don’t want to spend and also, you know, what we were talking about earlier about companies knowing about you and knowing stuff about you: I don’t like the idea of that
A: Yeah, actually, how do you feel about that sort of thing?
C: I think it’s dreadful, I mean the thing is, I mean, it’s like those people who’re out who, who did the anti-ads on that thing, I mean I hate advertising, I hate kind of, er, commercialism, because I mean in the last ten to fifteen years you see everything is so designed to sell the optimum, you know everything - I mean, like fifteen years ago, you know, the Face magazine didn’t have any ads in it
B: Mmm
C: And now, it’s full of ads, and we’ve just accepted it, you know, we just, we just - people are wearing the names of companies and paying for it, you know, and it’s just, I really, really - I really rebel against that, I really kind of ,er, don’t like it, so I don’t know, I think I’ve got very ambiguous feelings about it
A: Mmm
C: I can see the, the um, advantages of it, and it’s very exciting, but also I don’t feel particularly comfortable about it, you know,
A: Mmm
C: ...in many, many ways, you know.  I mean, we’ve been writing about it in literature for years, about the kind of, the effect that computers were going to have on us, and what we were going to do, and fifty years ago there were novels about what there’s going to be...
B: Mmm
C: ...In the corner of your room you can have a TV, and, er, it’s going to be a two-way thing, and everything, and that’s what’s happening, so I still don’t feel entirely sure that I like it
B: Mmm
C: Do you understand what I mean by that?
(.)
B: Yes, I mean, some of the ways in which companies will know about you are quite subtle, they’re - because it’s a two-way link, what they’re, what some of the websites we were on now will have downloaded onto our computer
C: Right
B:...a little piece of computer cod, which will give information about -  that  we went onto their site and what (...)
C: Oh really? 
B: Yeah, and that piece of code can then be looked at by other (...) that we go to, so they can then check which sites we’ve been to, and what
C: So, so it stays, it’s traceable, where we’ve been to now, and it’s traceable back to a phone number and address and things like that, so all the companies will know where you’ve been?
B: Well if they’ve got that
C: Right
B: If they’ve also got that information they can link it
C: So does that mean, kind of, um, the knowledge about you through the internet all sorts of - are you going to start getting things through the door as well, um ?
B: Yes, I mean, they’ll be able to use that information for whatever purposes, you know
C: Mmm
B: ...they want, but what, but they’re basically - they’ve got a new kind of information about people, about what they’re browsing through, and what they’re doing actually online
C: Mmm (...) um, you know, it has its plus points and its down side as well, I don’t know, as I say, I’m not - I don’t know too much about computers
B: Do you think that there’s any role for um, government, do you think they should be concerned about this, or involved in it in any way?
C: About the, er, about sort of, er, putting limitations on things, or...
B: Yeah
C: ...a computer watchdog, or something.  Um, I don’t know, because the whole thing about the internet was that it was a free kind of 
B: Mmm
C: A democratic kind of um, communication, sort of untainted by you know, legislation or um, censorship of any kind.  And I know they were trying to bring some kind of censorship in, obviously they have to in some, some cases, for example, you know paedophile, paedophile, you know kind of, um, (...) people and (...) things like that, so I mean, I don’t know where censorship - I don’t know how it works - I don’t know how it could work, but I guess that you hope that advertising is being monitored um, because, I mean -  there is an advertising standards thing isn’t there?
A: Yeah
C: Where they, they, they (...) an advert that is leading you up the, you know, garden path and (...) 
A: Yeah that would be one way of having censors or (...)
C: So on this, because it’s so much (...) I mean, anybody, any cowboy can sort of put something on the internet 
A: Mmm
C: ...And could be selling something.  How do you keep tracks on it, I mean  how do you know, how do you know if  it’s a warehouse, or a legitimate firm, or anything?
B: Well, I mean it can be in a different country...
C: Yeah
B: ...so it’s very difficult to
C: Yeah, exactly, so you could be, you could be, um, spending money and it could disappear.  Is that a possibility?
B: Yes
C: OK, so I mean, because it could be, like, a warehouse in Alaska, and you’re giving credit card details to these people
B: What do you think about that, about giving your credit card details?
C: Well, I didn’t really think about it until just now, until we were just talking about it, so - I mean, we’re used to doing it over the telephone
B: Mmm
C: ...to companies that you know exist, because you know, you know, because you know they’re there, but I suppose, um, I mean if a company, if somebody did that, for example, set up a business and was taking money from credit cards, would that be traceable back to them?   I mean, could they, could they be - is there any, er, deterrent from, from them doing it, or is it open ?
B: Well, I mean it 
C: Open to you know, corruption.  Do you know what I mean?
A: Yes I do, um, I’m not sure how it works with some credit cards (...) phone up and order something and you’ve got to (...) deliver something
C: Yeah, I mean it’s got to somewhere, hasn’t it, the money, so - I mean, I don’t know, I mean, are there any cases of it, or has it been happening?
B: I mean, I think the normal credit fraud is that someone uses your credit card to buy stuff and they get the goods, so that, that could happen if they’ve got your details, they could then use those details...
C: Mmm
B:... to buy other things...
C: Yeah
B: ...but whether they could set themselves up as a spurious company,
C: Oh right
B: ...that receives money? I don’t think they’d get away with it for very long, because as soon as a complaint is made to the credit card company...
C: Yeah
B: ...they would sort of stop transferring money
C: But it wouldn’t take very long for them, for, for a company, like, to actually...
B: Well quite, yeah
C: ... make er, make enough to make it worthwhile
B: (...)
C: Because you, now you give your details to companies that you know are solid, solid things
B: Right
C: The difference is because there’s such a vast range of, you know, standards of (...)
B: mmm
C: ...these companies, so that’s something.  And obviously, is anybody been thinking about that, or is there some kind of regulation on it, regulation of it?
B: There’s no regulation as such at the moment
C: No, no
B: No.  It’s just governed by the existing laws, so like, fraud, but of course it’s not - it’s very difficult to convict someone of that kind of crime if you don’t where they are [laughs]
C: Exactly
A: What you get with certain kinds of sites, new sites been built, will try and pre-empt those kinds of fears, as well, about security, so they’ll kind of, you know, include information about the security at their site, or how they’re going to encode...
C: Right 
B: Mmm
A: .. information, or who’s going to get to handle it, or, you know, how many people will see it, and
C: Sorry, so they’ll be able to -  I didn’t quite catch the beginning, (...)  thing you said
A: Well, I mean, there’s a number of things that they’ll try and do to reassure you, I mean -
C: - Oh right, OK, right, yeah
A: (...) which is one concern that some people have
C: Right
A: And in some cases they will try and encourage - you know, when you actually send the information, when you press the ’Send’ button at the bottom of the order form, with all your details, all your personal details on it, that it will be in some way encoded
B: ’Encryption’
A: Yeah, encrypted
B: Yeah, it translates it into code
C: Uh huh
B: And they have a lot of - they have like a code book
C: Right
B: And you, when you go online, they agree which code is going to be used, but then that information won’t be transmitted with the message, 
C: Oh right
B: so (...) messages are sent
C: Right
B: So if it’s intercepted, no-one knows which code has been used
C: Oh I see
B: So that’s one way of trying to secure...
C: Right, right
B: ...for it.  There are other ways too - one other way is that they only keep your credit card virtually, it’s only held in the computer, and that computer goes off and checks with your credit card company if you’ve got credit to repay it
C: Right, right
B:...and then bills the transaction like, literally while you’re online, but it doesn’t - it never stores that information
C: Right
B: So there’s no-one in the company (...) ever actually gets to see your number
C: Oh they don’t, really?
B: So that’s one way of doing it -
C: They don’t do it.  Oh right.  Do they do that now?  Is that what happens?  
B: Some people.  Some companies 
C: Right, right.  So they don’t actually see your details
B: That’s right.
C: But they still-
B: -All done automatically
C: Right, right
B: So that’s another way, but I mean, you, do you think, do you think it would help if they told people about the methods they were using?
C: Er, 
B: For securing the information
C: Maybe, yeah
B: Um
C: I mean, there isn’t a lot of information that - I mean, I don’t - there probably  are, there are probably loads of computer magazines and things which I don’t buy, (...)
B: Oh right
C: There probably is a lot of stuff 
B: (...)
C: There must be internet magazines, and 
B: Yeah, that’s true
C: So there must be, so
B: If you were concerned about it you could...
C: Right
B: ...read about that (.) Because it’s the internet you can actually email the company concerned and ask them what their arrangements are
C: Oh really?
B: Yeah
C: Right (...) Well, yeah the net’s - it’s a great, convenient way to buy things, and er, (.) er, I ’m not sure how I feel about companies knowing about, like, about you, you know
B: No, OK, hmm.  Anything else
A: (...)
(.)
A: (...)
B: OK, OK
C: Is that it?
B: That’s great
C: OK
B: Thanks a lot
C: That’s all right, that was very interesting
B: OK
C: Thank you
(...)
[laughter]
Ut3

User trial 3, 05.10.98, C2DE single male, 18-35, Low IT

LM: Alright then (…) okay so Pete and I both work at um the University, University of London, and um we’re doing some research about the Internet and about shopping on the Internet
J: Okay
LM: Like you can buy stuff over the Internet now so we really just wanted to talk to you to find out what you know about computers and what you think of like, we’ll be showing you some stuff on the Internet including some sort of places where you can shop or you can find out about shopping whatever
J: Mm, mm, yeah
LM: And just see what you think really, and sort of get your opinion (…)
J: (…) put that one in
J: Is it alright (…) put one in?
LM: Can do
J: Yeah
LM: (…) (.)
J: Less strain on you 
PL: [laughter] Yeah
LM: [laughs] (…) on the chair
J: Yeah, right
LM: Then it will be out of the way
J: That’s it, that’s fine
LM: Okay, so yeah, so I mean do you want to tell me about what you do, do you use computers and  
J: No, not exactly I don’t know much about computers, (…) acting manager or something of some company
LM: Uhuh
J: But I don’t know much about this sort of computer thing (…) if you’re talking about something like that, playing games and different from  
PL:   Right, right
J: You know
PL: Right
J: But I’ve always been fascinated by it, know what I mean, but it’s, from what I know you, you got to have a lot of patience with it
LM: Mm
J: (…) it’s just basically knowing your way around the computer which I haven’t got a lot of patience when it comes to things like that, you know
LM: Do you ever do anything like build computers at school or (…)?
J: Um, no ‘cos the time when I was, I was in Nigeria then and at that time the computer wasn’t really  
LM:   Right
J: You know, when I’ve been over here (.) I’ve not really been on this sort of computer, but like a (.) an old you know, tap, tap, tap
LM: Mm [laughs]
PL: Yeah [laughs]
J: And that’s about it really, and that was years ago but I done, basically I don’t know much, I don’t know anything about computers
LM: Right, okay (.) so what, have you heard any stuff about like (…)?
J: Yeah, every time when I go round his house, he’s always on the computer ‘cos he’s got it fixed up to his music system
LM: Oh right, okay (…)
J: And (…) you can, I don’t know just, it’s like me, I’m just there just watching you know, but he said you just got to, you just got to know basically about computers you know just, but he seems to enjoy it though, it’s like a toy to him
PL: Mm
J: It’s like that’s a toy to me (…)
PL: Yeah (.) okay
J: Yeah
LM: So what sort of stuff have you heard about the Internet?
J: Um you can sort of like all over the world and all that isn’t it, I mean there’s even one my friend was telling me about there’s, you can even, there’s a new one which they’ve got out, it might not be out over here, but in America where you it’s like a screen and you can be looking (…) the screen and maybe someone abroad or at the other end of the world, side of the world can just (.) just be like a TV you know, you’ll be able to  
PL:   Right
J:  See each other and that, but I don’t know really much about it, you know what I mean, it’s (…), it’s like I, I, I, I’m sort of like very curious about it although I don’t know my way around it yet you know
PL: Right
LM: Have you seen any stuff on like TV about the Internet or anything like that?
J: On the Internet, yeah, I mean you get all the advertising and all that don’t you, I mean my, my brother’s, I think he’s on the Internet aswell and I’ve got a few of my other friends who just, they’ve just acquired a computer and they’re trying to get on the Internet and that 
LM: Yeah
J: You know, but they don’t know really much about it, some of them go to like, doing computer courses
LM: Uhuh
J: You know so they can, ‘cos they all, they’re all, it’s like everyone now they want to, they want to try and get into the IT, you know, it’s the in thing
LM: Right
PL: Mm
J: But I mean getting into it, it’s good but ooh it takes time
LM: Yeah [laughter] (…) it’s just an excuse don’t you? [laughs]
J: Well, I’ll keep it a secret [laughter] um oh
PL: It’s on tape now [laughter]
J: I mean my friends, they just, they just want to sort of like just get into it do you know what I mean?
LM: Yes
J: Because it’s the in thing now, but it’s, they all say, ‘oh I want to get into IT and you know, get good money, twenty pound an hour’ and this and that
LM: Yeah
J: But getting into it and also knowing your way around a computer’s two different things you know what I mean  
PL:   Yeah
J: ‘Cos it’s, it is hard, and what I’ve known some people have done the course and they’ve always just dropped out, because you’ve got to have the computer mind for it, you know
LM: Yeah
J: You just got to sort of like be one with the computer and if you’re not then there’s really no point to it, yeah
LM: Yeah (.) and have you heard anything about like shopping on the Net?
J: Shopping um, I think my friend was telling me that he was, he done some bit of shopping on (.) oh I don’t know, some sort of, I don’t know, he wouldn’t tell me details, you know what I mean, ‘cos he was talking to his friend, I was just sitting down there, just waiting to go out [laughter] ‘cos at the end of the day I haven’t really got much, gotten into you know what I mean, eventually probably one day I might just decide to want to work my way round it
PL: Mm
J: You know what I mean, but at the moment  no, I just, I just stick to you know [laughter] (…)
LM: Nintendo?
J: Yeah (2.0)
LM: Alright so like what um, what, if you were to shop on a computer, what do you reckon that would be like? I mean (…)
J: What kind of shopping?
LM: Well using the Internet (…) so that you can connect all over the world
J: Yeah
LM: You know you can connect to sites on other computers all over the world
J: Mm
LM: Um and in some cases you know like I can connect to the website of like a leading store in New York or whatever
J: Mm
LM: And you can look at lists of all the stuff they’ve got in stock
J: Mm
LM: Um, you know and order something if you’ve got a credit card or a debit card (…)  
J:   You mean, what I’d like to order
LM: Yeah, and what you think it would be like compared to like sort of just going into town
J: Yeah, I would probably like more, more or less be, I’m into my sci-fi and that science fiction things and  
LM: Mm, mm
J: I would like to know a little bit more, get a bit more research on what kind of books to get and the computer games, finding out when computer, when they’re coming out or just getting to know the origin and do you know what I mean? I think it’s, it’s, it is quite good, I mean we’re coming to the millenium, you know the next millenium and that you know what I mean, so the computers nowadays is, it’s getting big, I just hope it doesn’t take over our, it doesn’t take over us, do you know what I mean? [laughter] But, you know yeah I think, I think that’s quite good though doing it over the Internet, I mean, I mean it’s a convenient way aswell anyway
LM: Mm
J: Getting you know, if you want to find out certain things, information on shopping, I mean it’s quite a convenient way to, to deal with it, going through the Internet
LM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, what about, tell me a bit about sort of (…) do you like shopping (…)?
J: Oh yeah, I like shopping, I like clothes, I like my you know, designer (…) and you know, but I’ve sort of like cut down a bit more [laughter] (…) a bit more like grunge, like the way you [laughter] you know what I mean?
LM: Thank you very much [laughter]
J: It’s cheaper, (…) and you feel comfortable wearing it aswell you know like, I bought, I bought  
PL: (…) grunge (…)
J: It’s, it’s sort of like you know (.) with black  
LM: Not dressing up a bit [laughter]
J: Well then again you could sort of like, I got loads of pocket jeans and all that
LM: Yeah
J: And jeans in different, different colours, I’ve got about twelve pairs or so whatever
LM: Mm
J: And like, you know the shirts with the, you know the old, yeah all that
PL: Yeah
LM: So you’re into clothes shopping?
J: I’m into clothes shopping but I, I don’t just buy, okay see something like this now
LM: Yeah
J: You could wear, probably wear that next year
LM: Yeah
J: You know what I mean, it’s not as if like it’s (.) I haven’t seen anyone wearing it anywhere, you know what I mean, and you could wear it next year which is good. That’s the sort of thing I buy I don’t, I wouldn’t buy something which I know I’m just gonna wear one year and the fashion’s gone out, no I, sort of like think to myself no I’m going to buy this thing and get the wear and tear out of it, you know what I mean
LM: Uhuh
J: That sort of thing, and, and probably for the Internet that will be good for me, if I, if I could (.) find out a shop which I know they’ve got clothes which is not really as public as it  
LM:   Yeah
J: You know what I mean? I mean that’s probably a good eye opener if I did have a computer 
LM: And more specialist
J: Yeah, yeah
LM: More kind of rare items
J: Mm, mm, then sort of like think to yourself, oh I want to go up King’s Road or Hyper Hyper or you know South Kensington, you can just, it’s more you know by getting on a computer you get exact information where to go
LM: Uhuh
J: You know
LM: Yeah
J: And probably if, if they was to do something, I don’t know if they’re doing it now, it’s probably (.) (…)  have pictures on the screen and show you what colours  
LM:   Yeah
J: And stuff they’ve got
PL: Mm, mm
J: And you know, I don’t know if they’ve got that now, but I’m just thinking of say if they, if they had  
LM:   Yeah
J: That would be a good idea
LM: Yeah, alright
J: That’s if the memory can take it [laughter] is it memory or what do they call it? Memory?
PL: Yeah, it’s the memory, yeah
J: Yeah
PL: If you want to sort of save pictures of clothes
J: Yeah
PL: Then you’d need quite a lot of  
J: ‘Cos they’ve got a few, something on the, on the er Playstation for that
PL: Oh right
J: Yeah, like a Windows sort of thing, but I’ve never sort of, ‘cos I haven’t, I don’t know anything about, it’s something to do with, with sort of like a (.) what’s the word I’ve forgotten, some sort of thing which they can adjust, a mouse
PL: A mouse
J: Is it a mouse?
LM: Yeah
J: Yeah
PL: So you can do that on the, on the Playstation?
J: Yeah, they’ve got something like that, when I read the magazines and that, it’s, you know, yeah
PL: Right
J: But I’ve never  
PL:   Because I think there, there was some talk of er possibly connecting Playstation (…)
J: Yeah, yeah, they’ve got, yeah, that’s the Playstation 2000
PL: Yeah
J: They haven’t got it out yet, because the reason why is ‘cos um they’re still making a lot of money on this, on the um  
PL:   Right, on the
J:  Sony Playstation
PL: Right
J: So they feel that it’s, it’s not really worth bringing it out yet, they’ll wait until the year 2000, which will be a good idea anyway ‘cos it’s a new era isn’t it really?
LM: Mm
J: So they thought they’d just wait, and it’s got like Internet, you can fix it up  
LM:   Right
J: To the Internet and everything and it’s got like a little screen
LM: So does that mean you’ll be able to play games with other players  
J:   Yeah definitely (…) yeah yeah
LM: Kind of in real time or it might be (…)  
J:   Now, that would be expensive [laughter] you know, but I don’t think it will have as, as much memory as, compared to, but it would help in some ways, you know what I mean
PL: Have you seen those games on the er computer that work at (…) 
J:   Um, Tomb Raider and that, when I go to the shops and that, I see the PC’s
PL: Yeah, yeah
J: You know the magazine called PC, well some of the, some of these RPG games  
PL:   Yeah right
J: (…) games, where they come onto the
PL: Right
J: They’ve put one on our, on the computers
PL: Yeah, yeah (.)
LM: Right so we’re just going to like um (.) try and connect to the Internet now and like show you some of the sites (…) can show you (…) (2.0)
J: What’s that doing now?
LM: Well right now it’s going, it’s using the phone line to phone UCL  
J:   Oh I see
LM: Like phone our college which has got a big server
J: Mm
LM: And it’ll connect us (.) to the Internet, hopefully. [laughs] (2.0) And now it’s just checking our account number (.) and now it’s (…) down there (…) connected on and then um (…)
PL: You have to go (…) further down (…)
LM: Oh, okay (4.0) and then Netscape is like the name of the browser
J: Mm
LM: (…) (4.0)
J: Are you quite good at computers?
LM: Getting better [laughs]
J: How are you?
PL: (…) trouble is, they keep advancing quicker than I’ve got time to learn about
LM: Yeah, we’ve got the basics I think pretty well
PL: Yeah
LM: Right, so this stage, so this is basically the browser (…) shows you where you are
J: Mm, mm
LM: You know, what the name of the (…) is, up there (…) but um, bookmark here is a list of a load of websites that we’ve been like looking at recently and we’ve shown to other people um (…) 
J: I can choose one, can I?
LM: Yeah you can choose several
J: Okay
LM: Some of them are like based in the States, like Amazon’s a  
J:   What about that, computers and technology? Would that come under computer games?
LM: It’s not, actually
PL: Actually we, we could, we could try  
LM:   What do you reckon?
PL: (…) ‘cos I think Playstation have got a site for example
LM: Yeah, alright, so what do you reckon?
J: What, what’s, what kind of a PC magazine then on er
LM: Well, computer tech, this, this section is just put, provided by Netscape (…)
J: Mm
PL: Well we could try PC magazine, they might have a list of Playstations
LM: PC magazine on-line, okay, can you (…) the mouse then, so this moves you around
J: (…) (4.0)
LM: (…) like that and then you get to what you want (…) make sure that you, yeah, that should, it tells you what it’s doing that it’s connecting to that site
J: Right, right (16.0)
LM: (…) to use up and down
J: Right
LM: (…) moves you up and down (…) (.)
J: To there or there?
LM: You see the little kind of arrows there and that, if you click on the arrow there it’ll, and then yeah and then push the button and it’ll lead you down (11.0) and all these things that are on the line, will link to other (…) 
J: Mm, mm (5.0)
LM: Doesn’t look like there’s anything about Playstation in anyway at all
J: No
LM: I tried (…)
J: Or you can just write down
LM: Well a lot of the, see these addresses up here
J: Mm, mm
LM: A lot of them are really similar for different things, so it might be like www playstation dot com  a company
PL: Well you could just try and phone them
J: Yeah, that would be (…)
LM: Yeah (…) I’ll try Playstation first
J: Or Playstation (…) do you think?
LM: Yeah (5.0) oh
PL: Anything?
LM: I think that was right [laughs]
J: Is that it?
LM: Direct hit [laughs]
PL: There you go
LM: The power of the Playstation [laughter] and there you go, right [laughs] I’ll leave you to it
J: I’ll, I’ll choose Japan [laughter] is that alright?
LM: Yeah
J: So what do I do with this?
LM: Use the mouse to scan, sort of to move it around
J: Yeah
LM: And see when it comes up with a hand, it usually means there’s a link
J: So what do I do now?
LM: Keep the (…) (.)
J: What’s that do?
LM: It’s connecting you to that (…)
J: Oh, right
J: Yeah, I wouldn’t mind getting one of these computers [laughter]
J: Mm (13.0)
J: How much is this computer worth, if you don’t mind me asking?
LM: What do you reckon it’s worth now?
PL: Well, they’re, it’s worth less every week [laughter] the price of them’s falling so
J: It’s alright though
PL: Yeah, it’s alright
J: Is this, is this the um Universitys?
LM: Yeah
PL: Yeah
LM: But a lot of them there, the newer ones I mean, it was worth quite a bit when we got it but the newer ones are sort of a lot slimmer 
PL: Yeah
J: Mm
LM: Um and, but they’re getting relatively cheaper  
J:   Oh, okay
LM: So for the same kind of money, you’re getting better and better things
PL: That’s right
LM: Whereas for less money you can get (…)
J: So what course are you guys doing there?
LM: Well Pete’s a lecturer
J: Oh, oh [laughter] you’re a lecturer oh right
LM: He’s the real (…)
J: I thought, I thought, I thought you seemed like, you seemed a lec [laughter] oh well
PL: [laughs] I’ve been practising on Liz though [laughter]
J: Oh she’s just, you’re just doing a work experience 
LM: I work for Pete, yeah [laughs]
J: Oh 
LM: Right, so that’s er [laughs]
J: So you’re doing computers then?
LM: Well actually we’re in the psychology department but  
J:   What’s that got to do with the Internet then? [laughter]
PL: Yeah, we’re not that kind of psychologists
J: Oh, okay
LM: We’re just trying to, just trying to figure out what people, what people think of it  
PL:   What people are going to do with it
LM: Basically, you know
J:  What the Internet or?
LM: The Internet, the computer and shopping and  
J:   I think the Internet’s good in some ways, it depends (.) it depends on (.) what kind of habit you’ve got, if you’ve got a habit or you like to shop and you like to get lots of information and sometimes it’s easy, you can just do it from home
LM: Yeah
J: If you’ve got a computer, you know, so. (2.0) Is it still (…)?
LM: No, it says (…)
PL: So is this the Japanese Playstation site? [coughing] (…)
J: (…)
LM: Yeah, that’s it (…)
PL: Oh right so is that, what’s the Network game, is that like?
J: Network game, um I don’t know what that one is, never heard of that
PL: Right
J: (…)
PL: Well if you try it, it will tell you about that (.) game
J: (…)
PL: Yeah, that’s it, when you get that end you, you’re in. (24.0) So we’re now connected (.) to the Playstation in Japan
J: Mm
PL: And now it’s sending us this information (.) bit by bit, it doesn’t come like in one go, it comes in they’re called packets
LM: (…)
PL: And there’s a little packet of information and each of those packets goes a different way
J: Right, yeah
PL: (…) one bit might come from America, one packet might come from (…)  
J:   So they, they’d probably be able to send you a demo of what’s
PL: You could, you could, well if you went onto a site that had say computer games
J: Right
PL: You could download a demo
J: Okay
PL: But because this is a  
J: Yeah, yeah
PL: It won’t work on this, so they won’t service that, but that [coughing] that’s a graph that we’re getting isn’t it? (2.0) Well I don’t know where these games are, maybe they’re on the new machine ah, no, too much Japanese
J: I’ve never heard of it, (…)
PL: Really?
J: No, must be something there
PL: There’s too much Japanese, you see it can’t, our computer can’t intepret
J: (…) intepret, yeah
PL: So (2.0)
J: (…) (7.0)
PL: Well these are the people involved in, must be a one layer developing and that’s a team (…)
J: Oh I know what I could have went to, um it’s Namco
PL: What’s that?
J: It’s, it’s a computer company where they make um games
PL: Oh, shall we try it?
J: Mm (.)
PL: Is it American or British?
J: It’s er, it’s Japanese, N, N A M C O, Namco (2.0)
PL: Is it (…)?
J: Yeah, that’s it, just there, Namco
J: (…)
PL: (…)
LM: Yeah, it might just be com (…)
PL: Oh right (3.0) (…)
LM: (…)
J: (…) what’s that (…)?
PL: That means that they, this address we tried to put in  
J:   Is wrong
PL: Is wrong [laughs]
LM: They don’t recognise it
PL: They don’t recognise it
J: (…) oh I know, (…) com
PL: Yeah, let’s try it. Liz thinks it might be a, have an American site
J: (…)
PL: I don’t know
LM: I don’t know, I mean
J: I’m sure it’s Japanese
PL: I don’t know, we got it in America (.) there we go
J: Namco
J: Wicked (.) oh maybe it’s a, it’s a Japanese company (…) I think they might be based in America
PL: Yeah
J: But it first of all comes out in Japan
LM: Yeah, (…) where they’re popular aswell
J: Mm, mm
LM: It’s like (…) (.)
J: Tells your destiny (…)
J: Alright [laughter] let’s begin now (…)
PL: What’s the, is this a game they’ve got out already or is it one they’re (.) (…)
J: (…)
LM: (…) use that again, have a look up and down, see what’s there
J: And what do I do next?
LM: Use that left one (…)
J: Click it (…), I’ve got that (…) so, so ah, alright [laughter] alright, this is what I want to know about yeah [laughter] Soul Kaliber
LM: Okay
J: Right
LM: So like  
J:   Can I? What?
LM: Yeah, use the, move the, that’s it use that, you should be able to click on  
J:   Click on
LM: Try the actual oracle  
J:   Oh yeah
LM: And then maybe, yeah
J: Yeah
LM: This is it (2.0)
J: Okay
J: (…) yeah, I’ve got, I’ve got the part one of this game
PL: Right
J: Yeah, I’ve got the part one of this game (4.0) Soul Kaliber, (.) what’s all this? (…) three souls future
LM: Basically, (…) yeah
J: Okay, yeah (5.0)
PL: That’s like the framework (…) but it is like painting
J: Wow, I’ve got to get one of these computers, man [laughter] oh that’s wicked, yeah, attack him, she is heavy, (…) [laughter] she’s fast (…)
PL: Right [laughter]
J: Oh that’s wicked (7.0) yeah
LM: (…) it should tell you like what’s where
J: Mm
LM: Yeah, so you get that hand
J: Yeah, (…)
LM: And it’ll, should give you a little bit of sort of information
J: That’s right (…) I’ll try the system, what’s the system, what system (…)?
LM: I don’t know, it might be you can (…) I don’t know
J: Mm, try the system, it might be a consul
PL: Yeah
J: (…)
LM: Yeah
PL: Try it (14.0)
J: Oh this is wicked (…) this will make me go down my brother’s house now [laughter] get on the Internet, no this, this is wicked, because I never really thought, I (.), (…) you just come in, you tell me about all this thing (…) (.) it’s good
LM: Hey, I mean like (…) it’s nothing I’ve ever looked at, there’s so much out there (…) (10.0)
J: It’s sort of still loading isn’t it?
LM: Um, well that bottom line will tell you  
J:   Oh I see okay
LM: That there’s more to go
J: ‘Cos I want to try and find out other Playstations (.) ‘cos that’s the arcade, it it’s going to come out in the arcade, but I want to find out if it’s going to come out on the Playstation first
PL: Right
J: Mm (.) I don’t know I’m not, I, when it comes to the arcade games I’m not really (.) 
PL: So they have some, oh right, they have versions of the game first
J: Yeah, what it does, first of all they’ll first come out on the arcade  
PL:   Oh right
J: But some games come straight out on  
PL:   Right
J: On the Playstation or Nintendo
PL: Yeah
J: It depends what kind of game it is, ‘cos you get like, you know the role playing games  
LM:   Uhuh
J: It wouldn’t be feasible for them to put it on (.) on the arcade, ‘cos it’s a long, it’s a, it takes hours  
LM:   Right
J: It would take months
LM: Yeah, yeah
PL: Right
J: To complete, but like ‘cos something like, you know, a quick fighting game or  
PL:   Yeah
LM: Mm
J: Or something which you complete, you know, they put, they put it straight on the arcade  
PL:   On the arcade
LM: Mm
PL: What and they play it there for a while  
J:   Yeah
PL: And then release it later on
J: Yeah, they’ll release it yeah, but what they have to do, they have to go through a lot ‘cos it’s, it’s, it all depending on, that’s why I know so much about, a bit, a little bit but no so much about this, but (…) computers or not
PL: Mm
J: It’s all to do with the um, the memory
LM: [laughs] (…) [laughter] so (.) right, so there is lots  
J:   (…) oh it’s (…) still um  
LM: It’s still going, but you could probably I mean you can already like play (…) go down here and see
J: What’s this then? What’s this Playstation then? Do you know?
LM: Er, try moving it, see that hand yeah
J: Yeah
LM: I don’t know what you’ll get (…) (9.0)
J: Probably if it was on a big, proper, powerful computer, it could be done quicker couldn’t it?
LM: Mm (5.0)
PL: Yeah, what do you think about the speed of it?
J: The speed of it is slow
PL: Mm
J: And I don’t know much about computers but you know
PL: Mm
J: Right, he’s back, he’s thinking (2.0) I don’t want to know about Packman, I want to know about Soul Kaliber (10.0) yes (…) how do I move it to come to this site?
PL: There’s a little, er  
LM: (…) yeah, there
PL: Yeah
J: Oh right (.) can’t move it that way, so I click on, is it that one? (…)
LM: Yeah, um yeah that one, that’s better, that’s it yeah
J: Oh right okay (.) oh yeah
PL: Like moving you rather than
J: Soul (…), that’s the one I’ve got (2.0) it’s quite easy once you know how to do this isn’t it?
PL: Yeah
LM: Once you know how to move around and  
J:   Oh (…) oh this is, oh this game is meant to be wicked, it’s a racing game (…)
PL: I suppose when they um give out the er, this new Playstation
J: New Playstation, yeah
PL: You’ll be able to do this on, on your own machine
J: Yeah
PL: And then you’ll be able  
J:   Well the games, I think, I think, what they’re going to do, I think it’s just for the games, give you information on what  
PL:   Yeah
J: You know, especially  
PL:   Maybe loads of demo’s will come out
LM: Yeah (.)
PL: They could try, I don’t know (…) I can see why they want to do that
J: Mm (…) like experiencing (…) politics
PL: (…) [laughter]
LM: Not getting on with other people
J: (…) (2.0) what happened to, to (…) this whole (…) (.)
PL: I don’t know we, we must have come down some other path
LM: Yeah, if you, if you use the, up here, takes us back
J: Oh, back eh?
LM: ‘Cos we want to get back to the different links, see the different links we’ve made, we might be able to get back to (…) Caliber
J: This here?
LM: Yeah, just try that (.)
J: There yeah
LM: Just, yeah (7.0) so (…), (…) system isn’t it and then (…)
J: Oh it’s still loading it up
LM: You could still go back again maybe, oh yeah (1.0)
J: Alright
PL: Go back, there it is
J: Welcome to (…) Caliber, this is where you can expect the majority of the  
LM:   Keep going (3.0)
J: (…) yes, oh come on, you’ve got to show, you’ve got to show me this mate [laughter] screen shots, right, where do I, I don’t (…) to get the screen shots, what do you reckon?
LM: What?
J: It says ‘welcome to’ (.) hold on, I’ll bring it down  
PL:   Are they down below? Yeah (6.0)
J: Okay (3.0)
LM: I know people who have got some (…) 
J: (…) pass one of those (…)
LM: Is that a kind of (…) player?
PL: Yeah
LM: But we haven’t got one have we? [laughs]
PL: Oh, we might have an equivalent on the, I put some (…) players on it  
LM:   (…) put something about characters showing off their stuff in (…)
J: Oh can you, can you get it?
LM: I don’t know
PL: I, I have put a couple of real time players on there, they, they sort of do it (2.0)
J: (…) anyway. What if I go to?  
LM:   If you go up, if you back up there, okay
J: You don’t mind me um ?
PL: Yeah, no, no
LM: And then try um (…)
J: Characters showing off their stuff (…)
LM: Yeah, try clicking on that (…)
J: No, it’s got the, oh Jesus (5.0)
LM: Oh, they’re like mm
J: (…) (2.0) wang (…) what’s that (…), what’s that mean?
PL: That’s the er amount of space, megabites remaining
J: Oh so I could, if I click onto that then? Would it mix some memory up or something?
LM: (…) I don’t really know
PL: No, let me have a look
LM: You can click in the link, download and view. If not you can write to it, download part of your hard drive and see what (…) (6.0)
PL: Yeah, I think we can have a go at that little plan (3.0) right so now it’s like you’re opening, there’s a possible security (…)
J: Cheh [laughter]
PL: When you’re downloading stuff from the network, you should be aware of security considerations, (…) contains malicious chrosoming instructions could damage your otherwise (…)  
J:   I don’t (…) what they mean by if you were trying to record it, it could, well we’re not going to do that are we? We’re just going to (.) see what’s in there, innit?
PL: Do you want to er, what do you want to do with this file, open it or save it?
J: Open it
PL: Let’s open it, we’ll try, we don’t want to save it do we?
J: Yeah, well you can’t, you can’t really, can you? We’ve, wouldn’t that be er what is it, breach or something?
PL: No, ‘cos they’re offering it to us
LM: Yeah
J: Well you can, well you can get  
LM: It’s like a thirty, it’s just like a thirty second click
J: Oh right
PL: Look, here we go (4.0) what are they doing?
LM: I don’t know (2.0)
PL: It’s doing something, is it? (2.0) No [laughs] 
J: Oh no
PL: It hasn’t worked has it?
LM: Can’t you write (…) oh no (2.0)
PL: What were you going to say?
LM: Well it said something about like (…) to save it on your hard drive (…)
J: (…)
PL: Oh did it? (2.0)
J: That did it (2.0)
PL: This might like be a big file, that’s the problem
J: What’s that mean, you got no  
PL:   Liz, have you got a little disk? (2.0)
LM: No (…)
PL: The one in the case? (8.0) Oh, see where’s she put it?
J: Are you going to save it then, yeah?
PL: Yeah, the trial (12.0)
J: Oh man oh dear, I am definitely getting a computer man, next year (.) get some money
LM: (…) a desk, a desktop one, the bigger ones are getting like really cheap, I mean these are still quite expensive some of them, smaller and more powerful but like  
PL:   Oh right so it’s, now it’s taken down the file now, we’re downloading the file
J: Yeah
PL: That’ll hopefully give us this demo
J: Oh so, okay
PL: And this is telling you it’s got like two minutes left  
J:   Oh so  
PL:   It’s getting quite, go ahead
J: So when we download it, you can, comes into your (…)  
PL:   Well, and then we’ll see if we can
J: Try and oh (…) is that alright?
PL: Yeah
LM: (…) I wonder if it put a different
PL: Er I think you can can’t you, while that’s still in there
LM: I don’t know
J: I think you have to wait
PL: You’ve got to wait for it to come down
J:  See all these things, I know, it’s only now I’m knowing it now (…) I think I should do a computer course, what do you reckon?
PL: Yeah [laughter] why not?
LM: If you can get one of the ones that, you know (…) you’re interested in
J: Yeah (4.0)
LM: What (…)?
J: I think I would have to [laughter] I think I’m gonna have to  
PL:   Oh no it’s one hour left
LM: Oh no
PL: Oh forget it
J: What one hour? [laughter] It’s got one hour demo?
PL: Yeah, yeah, I thought that was minutes, but that’s like, this is the time it takes to load the program
J: Oh, you’re joking [laughter] that means you can’t  
LM:   Why’s it going, why is it changing (…)?
J: Forget about that [laughter]
PL: Well we’ve only got  
LM:   (…) seconds
PL: We’ve, we’ve only got three percent of it, these, these, these hours, these are minutes, these are seconds so fifty five minutes  
LM: It keeps adjusting them doesn’t it?
PL: Yeah, that depends on the speed that it’s coming, but we’ve only got four percent of it
J: Oh it’s, it’s, oh is this going to store, okay. It’s got an hour of in, information right?
PL: Yeah
J: But it won’t take an hour to load though will it?
PL: It’s, it’s taking, that’s it (…)  
LM:   No, it’s got about thirty seconds of information on it, but it will take about an hour to download
PL: [laughs] Yeah
LM: Maybe (…)  
J:   Oh forget that, might aswell come out of it then innit?
PL: Yeah (.)
J: That’s another, that’s another, that’s another fault on the Internet [laughter] that, that  
LM: (…)  
J:   Pissed me right off [laughter]
LM: Yes, you want to get on a different (…). So I (…) we get some sort of other shopping (…)
J: Yeah
LM: Where you can spend some money and (…)  
J:   Alright [laughter]
LM: So like these ones, from like back down there onwards, are the ones we’ve sort of picked up right so Amazon is a bookshop, a bookshop in the States, CD Now is CD’s  
J: What’s that, oh yeah CD, I like my CD’s, music
LM: Yeah, and there’s like a list of records of British record shops, which have got an Internet site. London Wide is like fashion, um and I can’t remember what designers they’ve got in there but (…) so yeah, (.) Try Action which is a British one, (…) quite quick to load because it’s (…)
J: Mm
LM: (…)
PL: So what’s this one?
LM: Action records
PL: Oh right
LM: It’s like, they’ve got a, they’ve got a shop, like a record shop in Preston, but they’ve got a website (…) they’re quite cheap (5.0)
J: What’s it doing that, oh I should just click yeah?
LM: Yeah (…)
J: Rock, jazz, records (.) can I bring it down a bit?
LM: Yeah
J: See what else is down there (.) reggae, where’s R&B, that’ll be under blues then won’t it I think?
PL: Mm (12.0)
LM: (…)
J: What’s that? (.) Oh is it none, what does that mean? (2.0)
LM: (…)
J: Oh yeah, yeah, how did you get that one?
LM: That was just, this is the first, this  
J:   Yeah, I was going to, yeah, yeah, okay
LM: Is like the front page (…) back from where we’ve just gone
J: Okay, yeah. (9.0) That’s where (…) can go isn’t it?
LM: Uhuh [laughter] (.)
PL: I’ve got some  
J:   I’ll tell you what oof (2.0) where’s my bag? I’ve got something for you, yeah? (3.0) 
PL: I’ve got some indigestion tablets (…)  
LM: It’s not indigestion [laughter] (…)
PL: Hunger
LM: Pangs of hunger  
J:   Here you go, have a Snicker 
LM: Oh [laughs] thank you
J: Go on yeah
LM: Yeah, I might, keep hunger at bay. [laughs] So yeah, so if you can use the (…)
J: Yeah (3.0) bring it down? Oh right down (…)
LM: Yeah 
J: That’s right (4.0) new release, no (.) it’s quite easy once you know how to do it though really
LM: Uhuh?
PL: Yeah
J: Mm (7.0) right, right (…)
LM: (…) come out today
J: Okay
LM: They still haven’t got  
J:   (…) I’ll bring that down
PL: Oh is this new releases?
LM: Mm
J: They’re new releases
LM: This is an alphabetical list of everything they’ve got new in stock today
PL: Oh, oh right
J: You can have lambada (15.0)
PL: That’s a lot of releases in a day
J: (…) this is all in a day?
LM: Mm, well it’s a Monday and most things come out  
PL:   Oh right (…)  
J:   Oh yes, right, come out, yes sort of singles yeah
PL: Yeah?
J: That’s a good thing, yeah
PL: Yeah right
J: ‘Cos I get, I get, I do get a lot of singles aswell
PL: Can you click on one of them? (…)
LM: I don’t think so I think  
PL:   No?
LM: This is just a list
PL: It’s just a list
J: (…)
LM: So like if you clicked on there, you could order it  
J:   But what if, yeah but what if, say if I, I wanted to bring up (.) (…)?
LM: I don’t know if they’ve got a search on (…). They should have
PL: Oh, don’t they?
J: Absolutely
LM: Well they must have, but I’ve never found it (.) not like um 
J: Search, what about that, yeah
LM: This, this, that search is the sort of  
J:   Oh right
LM: For the whole of the Internet, whereas we need to look inside this little Window to find (…) the site
J: We could click out of (…)
LM: It goes back to where we were
J: Oh right
LM: Mm (2.0) browse catalogues? I don’t know what that means
J: Browse
PL: That’ll be it won’t it?
LM: (…) no link though
PL: Oh
LM: Just browse
PL: Ooh
LM: Maybe (…) catalogue (…) (6.0) (…)
J: Oh what’s that, hold on, what’s that um (…) Criminals? (.) (…) movies aswell, bloody hell (2.0) I can’t believe, it’s movies (2.0)
PL: That’s it, I think I, did (…) have a site or something like that, did it?
LM: I can’t, yeah I’m sure they do, shall we try that?
PL: Yeah, well, I don’t, let’s have a look at the CD Now one (.)
LM: Yeah
PL: I think the search is a good idea (6.0)
LM: (…)
J: Was it alright that Snicker?
LM: (…) [laughs]
J: Good, good, good
LM: (…)  
J:   Do you want some of my cold drink, I’ve got something like Cherryade or if you want?
LM: No, no I’ve still got (…)
J: Sure? Oh right
LM: I’m fine. This is American CD’s
J: Yeah
LM: (…) but it’s, it’s only this, this isn’t a shop like Action Records have got a shop in Preston
J: Yeah, mm
LM: And they have, they run their own website, but this is like just a warehouse in the States with (…)
J: Yeah, okay
LM: So you could probably search here, (…) type it in
J: Type it in, okay um, oh god (…) come on, come on [laughter]
LM: (…)
J: How do I type it in, what, use this?
LM: Use the keyboard, mm
J: Er, movie star, yeah
LM: Whatever, (…) it’s like the CD type
J: Oh okay (…) just trying to think of the name (2.0) Robert De Niro (.) would that be able to do this?
LM: Mm (…)
J: Open (…) a musician artist, oh yeah, yeah, yeah
LM: Mm, yeah
J: Er, um, um, Chico Dbage. Have you heard of him?
LM: It rings a bell, C H I C O?
J: Yeah (3.0)
LM: D (…) De
J: D B A 
LM: All one word?
J: Yeah, all one word, I’m sure it is, yeah (…)
LM: Isn’t that a Greek word Dbage?
J: Yeah, but it  
LM:   Is that (…)?
J: Yeah, yeah, it’s from (.)
PL: And this is Chico (…) [laughter]
J: Chico. He was inside, he just come out of prison and brought out um an album
LM: There we go
PL: Look at that (6.0)
J: Album somewhere
LM: (…)  down again, you might be able to play it, but I’m not sure (2.0)
J: Long time no see, bad  
LM: [laughs] That’s the one is it?
J: Well, (…) Chico Dbage is a good one (…) see what the album (…) what’s that?
LM: I don’t know, if you Chico Dbage (…)  
PL:   Oh right
LM: (…) what you’ll like aswell
J: Mm, (…) this thing’s quite easy once you know to do it (…)
PL: Yeah
LM: I don’t think you need too much special course, you just have to play around
J: Mm, you just, mm (.) actually I don’t know, I ain’t being funny, I’m, I’m not, I’m patriotic but I just can’t stand these (…) [laughter]
LM: (…)
J: What’s that, just showing a list of other stuff (…)
LM: Well they reckon you’ll  
PL:   Well this is stuff they think you’d like
LM: They think you’ll like
J: (…) no, I’ve got, I’ve got there anyway
LM: Yeah
J: (…) Listening Station (…)I’ve got (…) he’s wicked, (2.0) (…) no, I’m definitely not into that, (.) no, it’s too hard core for me (…) 
LM: [laughs] Oh, what’s that? [laughs]
J: Now, now, now, now (.) I was, I was going to buy a single once and that’s it, that last bit
LM: Oh yeah, well that’s what they reckon you’d be  
J:   Mm, interesting
LM: Into
J: They’re having a laugh [laughter]
LM: But it’s got a whole, like here, you’ve got like information about the person
J: Oh biography, yeah, oh biography yeah, I’d like to know that
LM: All these things that are coloured are underlined oh
J: (…) Chico Dbage, no (…) (14.0) yeah, Chi yeah
LM: Well it’ll probably like, if you could come out of (…) a lot of them (2.0)
J: Bad (2.0) wicked tune, that is, it’s just taking a long time to load isn’t it?
LM: (…) 
J: That’s my album (6.0)
LM: Right, so this is, these are track systems
J: Yeah
LM: There’s these ones here which is  
J:   No Guarantees
LM: Where’s Wonderful, that’s a good one [laughs]
J: Yeah, there’s one, oh alright then
LM: [laughs] No, what’s the name, No Guarantees?
J: No Guarantees
LM: If you sort of play it (2.0)
J: (…) to load it’s going to take about twenty hours again
PL: [laughs] Yeah (7.0) [music starts] there it is
J: Mm, mm, mm, mm [music continues]
LM: There it is, it’s brilliant
PL: Very good [music continues]
J: Oh there’s another one I would get, I want to check out, he’s called Nicole Reddy
LM: Mm
J: If I could listen to it?
LM: Mm
J: I will
PL: (…) that’s it
LM: So yeah, so assuming you hadn’t already got this [laughs] you could have done this then and see what you thought (5.0) Do you want to search for ? Mm
J: Yeah
LM: So go back there (…) and type it in (5.0)
J: (…)
LM: (…)
J: Okay (5.0)
LM: And then just move the cursor, move the mouse onto ‘find it’ and click again and then, that should do it
J: Uh (2.0) is your stomach alright now?
LM: (…)
J: (…) album, where do I press on  now? To listen to the tracks? (.)
LM: Try that music find there
J: Mm
LM: Not there, but I mean, I mean, yeah, try that (11.0)
J: Mm, mm
LM: You’ll have to go down again
J: Yeah (.) what here?
LM: Yeah (4.0) and again
J: Oh
LM: (…) (2.0) There you go
J: Right, (.) what?
LM: Mm, mm (6.0) I think it’s quite a good song, that one (…) thinking of buying at some point in the future (…)
PL: Oh (…) [music starts]
LM: It’s not a great sound quality
J: No, no, no
LM: (…)
J: But I can hear it
PL: That’s it [music continues]
J: I’m getting that album, mate [laughter] getting that album [laughter]
LM: We could buy it here [laughs]
J: Getting that album mate [laughter] [music stops] right
PL: Yeah
LM: So basically they want to, obviously they want to (…)
J: Can I, can I just try the next one aswell? 
LM: [laughs] Okay
J: What do I do, just click onto it yeah?
LM: Yeah
PL: Yeah (…)
J: (…) what are you into anyway?
LM: Um, all sorts really
J: Like what?
LM: I’m not all that into R&B [laughs]
J: Oh your into garage
LM: Yeah
J: Ah it’s garage 
LM: (…) [music starts]
J: Young Ones eh? [laughter] [music continues] Yeah, let’s move on, let’s move on [laughter] but I’ll get that album though (…)
LM: (…) cocaine (…) probably be a bit more likely to  
J:   (…) what’s the name (…) oh you’ve heard it?
LM: [laughs] No, I haven’t, I was just saying it might be more upbeat
PL: Might be a bit better
J: Yeah [laughter] me too, do you know what I mean, you got to be in the right mood for that [laughter] [music continues]
LM: That’s not bad is it?
J: A bit poppy, mm
PL: Yeah, I don’t like this song [music continues]
J: I’ll have to listen to this upstairs, after this is (…) [laughter] Rockin’ chick [music stops] see now, see now I know how to do it now, I’m going to hog the (…) [laughter]
LM: (…)
PL: Why don’t we look at something else aswell like er, er Loot? [music starts again]
J: Yeah, yeah
LM: Yeah [music stops] alright let’s look at Loot
J: What Loot magazine?
LM: Yeah, they have a website
J: Oh okay
LM: So basically see here, you can just (…), you can buy it, and it’s like the prices are pretty good like ten dollars is like seven pounds, for a CD
PL: Mm
LM: Um
PL: You have to pay postage aswell don’t you?
LM: You have to pay postage ‘cos it’s an American (…)
J: Mm
PL: Three dollars isn’t it, something like that
LM: Yeah, seven pounds is quite cheap compared to what it’d be over here so you know, you just click on that, it’ll add it to your list of things you’re going to buy and (…) all your details (3.0) right (…) (4.0) is it Loot (…)?
PL: Actually yeah (…) I think we’ve got a bookmark on it
LM: Mm (2.0) yeah, there we go (2.0) but this isn’t so much like well are you going to spend money but just (…) on-line
J: Mm, true
PL: Has it got a search? I’m looking for a shed, shedding
LM: Oh you’re looking for a shed [laughs]
PL: I’m looking for a shed to put my bike in (.) right so you can go in and you can er find it (12.0) oh (…)
LM: Mm
PL: Mm (…) (13.0) freezer
J: What’s that?
PL: [laughs] Oh I see, ideal for shed or garage, so they’ve put that one in, I don’t want a freezer (4.0) (…) waterbeds [laughter] I just want a shed (2.0) rubber surface (.) (…) tarmac. Cornish Rex kittens. Garden shed, ah that’s in Liverpool (7.0) mm (4.0) so you can er say you like that one (2.0) that’s (…). Wendy house shed, you can put it on your clipboard and then store, get the number
J: Mm
PL: And then you can go and ring them up like you do from the paper (6.0) mm. They like you to have your own personal set up so they  
J:   Yeah
PL: Can send you emails and stuff and you can, if you want to put something in the newspaper you can  
J:   Cosy, okay oh you can from here aswell
PL: You can do it from here you just  
LM:   That’s what I did when I was trying to, when I was trying to  
PL:   Did you
LM: (…) our room (…)
PL: Oh right
LM: (…)
J: (…) students (…) students
LM: I’m sharing at the moment but one of my flatmates moved out so (…) room so you can just type in a, like an advert and just press send and it’ll, it’ll appear on the web
J: Mm, mm
LM: (…) flat [laughter] so it’s sort of divided up in a, in a way you know like the magazine, like different sections and different prices for say (…) (.) um (8.0)
J: Ah, ah, yeah, yeah, Internet, Internet, Internet, Internet [laughter] I’ve got something for the Internet, mate, I’ve got a message for someone [laughter] yeah (…) is that on?
PL: Yeah
J: Yeah? They must have a thing on there that um, they’re called Two Hand Production I don’t know if you’ve heard of them
PL: No
J: (…) oh yes, yes, yes, yes, there you are, alright (2.0) when you’ve got, when you’ve done your  
LM:   No, it’s alright
J: But I don’t know, I don’t know if they’ve got it in there, oh they haven’t, they wouldn’t have a website on there would they? Unless it, if that logo came up, I don’t know (.) Two Hand Productions (.) that would be, that wouldn’t be sufficient would it? (…)
LM: What is like a?
J: No, it’s a, it’s a film company
LM: Film company
J: Yeah, it’s for documentary (2.0) no
LM: They probably, they probably would have put website  
J:   Yeah, I know
LM: If they’d had one, ‘cos  
PL:   Yeah
LM: Like people tend to now kind of (…)
J: Yeah
LM: Well maybe it’s time to call it a day with this and er, or do you think there’s anything else we should look at?
PL: Er, no, we could give, show James the Tesco’s website
LM: Yeah, that’s a good idea  
J:   Yeah (…)
LM: Something a bit more boring
J: Yeah, let’s go something boring, let’s see what’s happening
LM: Yeah
PL: Yeah, let’s see
J: See if they’ve got any pasta in there, you know what ooh and all that lasagne and [laughter] 
LM: So this thing isn’t on the Internet, this is something we’ve like just down  
J:   You just done yourself
LM: No we just downloaded it (…) (3.0)
J: So do you guys usually do researches, market research thing?
PL: Yeah, it’s not really market research, it’s just academic research
J: Ah academics (…) academics [laughter] on the computer [laughter]
PL: (…) right so here you can, what you do is you get out er like er (…) fruit and veg or deli 
J: Yeah, deli
PL: And then you get the different things at the deli (…) oh no, I don’t know what that is (2.0)
J: Will it give you more information now  
PL:   Black pudding [laughter] god they have black pudding
J: Black pudding 
PL: Cheese, continental (…) (.) and then you can go on, you can go on to one of these (.) cottage cheese, hard cheese, cheese, try that and then it tells you what kind of cheese they’ve got
J: Mm
PL: And then you can decide what you want, Tesco’s (…) er, and then it puts it in your shopping basket and gives you a (…) and then you can check out what you’ve got with your shop here (…) stuff we already put on our list
LM: This is our shopping list
PL: Tells you how much it costs and keeps the list for you. And when you’ve got your list ready, you can go back on the Internet, on-line  
J:   Oh
PL: (…)
J: So, so that means instead of, you wouldn’t have to shop in Tesco’s now, you can just go through all that, check it, then you’d know how much roughly you’re going to spend
PL: Yeah
J: Then you’d go to the shop and get the items or  
PL:   Well you could or you could order it over  
J:   Over the oh
PL: And then they’ll deliver it
LM: They’ll deliver it
J: Oh right
LM: So say you could just make up a list of all the stuff you want
J: Yeah, mm
PL: (…)
LM: It will tell you how much it’s going to cost, tell you how much it’s going to cost for delivery then you just send it off  
J:   That’s cool
LM: And you’ll tell them when you want it delivered
J: So basically it’s got, it’s got, basically it’s covers, it covers everything
PL: It’s got everything in the, that, that one’s based on your local store
J: Mm
PL: And it just has all the products that are in that store, you know
LM: So is that based on like your nearest (…)  
PL:   That one is based on mine, yeah, yeah (…)
LM: And what is the nearest?
PL: Sorry?
LM: What is the nearest?
PL: Whatever, whatever, if they’re doing it, they’re not all doing it
LM: So if they’re not doing it, (…)
J: Oh that’s good (2.0) that’s brilliant (6.0)
PL: So what do you think?
J: I think it’s a convenient way of, you know, not, it’s not just for shopping just for you know, knowing many things, you know what I mean
PL: Mm, mm
J: Knowing about I mean (…) I don’t know if it’s got anything to do with world culture or whatever, different cultures and things
PL: Yeah
J: It’s, it’s, it’s good, it’s a convenient way to know a bit more (…) than the old conventional way of going to the shop or going to the library or find out this or, you know it’s, it’s good. I think the Internet is, it’s a very good idea you know, but then again (.) it depends on what kind of information you want ‘cos we’re all human beings at the end of the day and like (.) it’s all to do with, I mean, (…) from what I, you’ve showed me this computer and the information that I’m getting is good but it’s just time
PL: Mm
J: You know what I mean, takes, it’s, it takes a lot of time to load up (…) system or whatever and I do believe like if they do happen to, I mean, there’s going to be one day when everyone is, everyone’s going to have all this
PL: Mm
J: But it’s also what it costs for something like this, it’s a question of how quick it all loads. Sometimes when I’m playing my computer games like ‘oh come on man (…)’ you know
PL: Yeah
J: It’s just (.) yeah, ‘cos you know we’re all human beings, we’re all insatiable, we’re all, we will always going to want something better, no matter how good it is, something come out, just, maybe like this now five, five years ago could have come out now ‘wicked man (…) yeah, wicked, wicked, wicked’ you know what I mean? And then something else, a bit of time goes by and you start thinking of, you know, you just get bored of it and you think ‘oh come on man’ you want something, but then again it’s good, it’s a good idea
PL: One way that make it quicker is that they’ll have it like, you know like you’re um (…) like this (…)?
J: Yeah
PL: And they’ll um have a channel on the telly when digital telly comes out
J: Yeah, digital, yeah
PL: And then er, not, not like the Internet that, that you can then bring up stuff like choices
J: Yeah
PL: Like going to a menu and saying ‘oh yeah I’ll have that one, I’ll have that one’ and that’ll be like a sort of reduced service that  
J:   I wish they could have one with (…) [laughter] be even better [laughs] yeah, be even better, yeah that will be good though with that digital thing, yeah (2.0) yeah, this is going to make me want to get the Internet now, or I’ll probably go down my brothers and just (.) see what’s on there (2.0)
PL: What about the, do you think there are any disadvantages to it?
J: Disadvantages? 
PL: Mm (1.0) like the security warning came up
J: Yeah because that could mess up the whole thing couldn’t it I think?
PL: Yeah
J: Could mess up the whole, but then again that’s why I’m saying you’ve got to be computer literate, you know what I mean, you got to know what you’re doing, you can’t just press, press any button, you know, but then again, if they devises a, a mechanism whereby (.) you know it’ll give you a warning like it obviously did anyway, but give, you know ‘cos sometimes people don’t really sort of like see it. Like that warning, it said it on there but then again maybe within the system itself they should do like a, a noise thing which will, which will alert you and think ‘why is it going like that?’ and that’ll make you sort of like
PL: Mm
J: Think to yourself oh hold on a minute, let me just check, let me just look at the whole screen or whatever because little, little prints  
PL:   Yeah right
J: You might not notice it you know what I mean?
PL: Right, right
J: Little, little things like that, that’s a disadvantage
PL: Mm
J: Which  I, I believe it would be a disadvantage
PL: Mm, mm
J: It would, definitely (.) ‘cos that (…) now, I could have just pressed, I don’t know, you noticed it, I didn’t notice it, I could have just tap, tap, tap something and maybe this whole thing would just, it would just crash or whatever, you know, those are your disadvantages
LM: What about shopping though, I mean would you buy like, use it?
J: Yeah, the music, the music thing  
LM:   (…)
J: The music thing I would like that, that, that’s a good advantage because that Nicole Rene, I’ve never heard it before and some of the tracks from it, it seems alright, you know, ‘cos I know (…) other things and that but that’s the really good, it’s a good step up you know, it’s really good that is
PL: Mm, mm
J: Yeah, ‘cos I’m a man I like my CD’s and I’ll, to find the Internet I’ll go to it and find out yeah
LM: There’s a lot of information  
J:   A lot of in, ah
LM: About like, kind of who’s (…)  
J:   Oh that would be, that would be wicked, yeah I like that
LM: What about clothes shopping? Can you imagine, ‘cos I, we didn’t really have enough  
J:   Clothes shopping, it’s sort of
LM: Time to look at those sites but  
J:   (…) clothes shopping man, I’m like what, you know, depending if (.) depending if you should, you’ve got a lot of money and think to yourself alright I want to get something really special or like if you want to get yourself a nice designer suit or something, little things like that which are important then you’d, you know, probably really go to a place where they are cheaper than the designer garments (…)
LM: Mm
J: (…) things like, yeah that’s good. Right not just for something like yeah you want to get on, go on the Internet just to find out what, nah, but certain, certain things specific things
LM: Right
J: (…) clothes shopping that I (…)
LM: So you mean like stuff that you wouldn’t like necessarily find down the high street?
J: Yeah, yeah something like that or like say could be anything, antiques or whatever, could be you know
LM: Mm
J: Yeah, something like antiques or you know (…) there’s those sort of places where, if you to certain places where you can get nice antiques and they’re cheap (…) you know in all the years to come by, you’ll never know someone, if it was taken to antique shop and say ‘oh this’ if it was getting valued or whatever
LM: Mm
J: You know, things like that I think the Internet’s good, it helps you, it helps, it gives you more information on what more you want to know (.) so you sort of like walking out on the street and you think (…) that (…) shop ‘oh yes if you go down the road there and you turn left, turn right’ and nah, (…) more like computer games aswell
LM: Mm
PL: Mm
J: So it would be great, or like if you get a car or something, I’m sure they must have  
PL:   Mm
J: A facility on there for cars or something
PL: Yeah
LM: Yeah (…)
J: It’s like, it’s convenient for someone who really wants to go out there (…) you know, as a consumer you want, you want to get your satisfaction out of it, you wouldn’t, you wouldn’t go out of your way
PL: Mm, yeah
J: Your best bet is to do a lot of, a bit more research that just sort of like going  out on the street and probably (…) ‘oh that’s alright that’s a good bargain’, but then again you might think to yourself oh man, if I was able to use the Internet, I might even get a better bargain than that you know what I mean
LM: Yeah
J: Which is good (2.0) I never thought of it that way, it’s only now I’ve just thought about it
PL: Mm
J: ‘Cos my brother’s got the Internet and the little (…) I did is quite good. I mean everyone knows about the Internet but it’s, it’s like lot of, lot of, not, everyone doesn’t know how in depth it is, you know?
LM: Mm
J: And it’s got a lot of depth to it and yeah, that would be something for me to invest on in the New Year [laughter] yeah, yeah
PL: What about the future? Do you think it, you know, what’s going to happen in the future about this?
J: What I think is in the future um you see it all depends on how, how literate people can be on the computers, there’s some people out there who don’t know a thing about computers, I don’t know much about them, but I do believe that what I’ve you know, I can be computer literate to understand this, I think it’s because I, that computer there, ‘cos there’s some games where you have to click into certain places and press the buttons and that and that’s sort of like given me an idea of how this works
LM: Mm
J: But it’s nothing, are you alright?
LM: Yeah
J: Are you getting cold?
LN: No, no
J: Are you sure, you look hot (…)
LM: I’m cold, no, I’m (…) I don’t really feel the cold that much
J: Yeah 
LM: No I, honestly
J: Are you sure? Okay, ‘cos I’m cold but I just can’t (…) I don’t know, I just can’t be bothered to get a (…) [laughter] um yeah it’s good, it’s alright, something for me to look out for, for next year but I think sometime next week I want to go on my brother’s computer
LM: Mm
J: And ask if I can just get on the Internet you know, it’s fun (5.0) 
PL: (…) 
J: Anything else?
LM: (…) (4.0)
PL: (…)
J: I mean does you, does it check you for things like um (.) people who are poor in foreign countries and all that, I mean you could, I mean like a pen pals or something like that? ‘Cos my friend me told me one time that he was on the Internet and he’s got his pen pal
PL: Yeah
J: And (.) yeah I think it covers everything really, it just depends on what stuff they’ve got on it, I mean, (…) does this cover everything?
LM: The Internet I mean, you can find information about almost anything, yeah
J: Yeah (…)
LM: But in terms of like talking to people you know, in other countries, some places have got a lot more Internet access than others, like in the States, ‘cos it’s a big place, like everybody can connect in, but  
J: Oh right, yeah, you see, yeah, that’s, that’s what I  
LM:   And in Nigeria I’m not sure, what, you know I don’t think the (…) structure is like so good. In some parts of Europe there’s like massive Internet usage, like in Scandinavia and other parts yeah  
J:   Yeah
LM: (…) all that much so
J: (…) get there (.) hopefully, by the year 2000, well, give it another five years
PL: Yeah (3.0)
LM: Alright, well I think (…)
J: Oh is it, is that it?
PL: Yeah, yeah
J: Alright [laughter] thanks for coming round
LM: Oh thank you
PL: No problem
J: I appreciate that (…) you know what I mean
LM: (…)
J: Ooh [laughter]


Ut4

Ut4 J and S; Cohabs C2DE,  Low IT, 18-35, 12th; October 1998**


LM: …looking at people’s use of computers and what they think of them. So you know we’re just trying to find out what people know about computers and what they’ve heard about sort of the Internet and computers on TV and that sort of thing. (2.0) So um yeah, so if you could tell me both of you what, if any, use you’ve had of computers, if you use them or if you used them at school or…
S: Um, no (2.0) not at
J: Not at school
S: Not at school no
S: They didn’t have them then
J: Didn’t have em then (2.0) Have you, have you used a computer?
S: Um (1.5) not really. I ain’t been in an environment where (2.0) I mean, I’ve seen computers being operated and that but I haven’t been in an environment where I can actually (2.0) you know, use one, unless a friend’s got one…
J: Yeah my mate’s got one
S: But even then (2.5) not really. I know the basics
J: I don’t really know that much about computers to be honest
LM: Yeah
S: I mean I know the basics like you know, sort of thing…
LM: Yeah
J: My son knows more about computers
LM: Yeah
J: He’s just…
LM: This is your six year old?
J: …left school, yeah. No he’s sixteen…
LM: Oh right
J: I’ve got an older son who doesn’t live with me
LM: Oh right, okay
J: He lives with his father
LM: Right
J: And he um, he went to do a course um (1.5) do you know um Lion Road on B Hill? Um that (…) factory
LM: Um I know B Hill [laughs]
J: He was going to do um IT computers
LM: Oh right
J: He passed the test and that but he decided to go back to school now and be in the sixth form, but um I don’t really know about computers, he knows more than me
S: Yeah the kids know more these days
LM: Yeah well that was why I was saying about your six year old cause it’s perfectly sort of, you know [laughs]
J: [laughs] No he’s sixteen…
LM: Cause they’ve got them all at school
J: …nearly seventeen, um…
LM: Right. (2.0) So what sort of stuff have you kind of heard on TV about computers, or do friends of yours like any of them use them at work or anything like that
J: Yeah my mate uses one. She’s a social worker, she uses it a lot
LM: Right
J: And um…
S: Basically just storing information on a (3.0)
J: Mmm
S: Like you got the Internet (1.5) which has a lot of information if you need it (1.0) and games really
(2.0)
J: Yeah [laughs]
LM: Right. Yeah what sort of stuff have you heard about the Internet? And sort of where 
S:  Um just general things what you get from the telly, um (3.0) you know that sort of thing
J: Dating on the Internet isn’t it, is (1.5) whatever [laughs]
S: Yeah there’s all sorts of things on it, like they just advertise what they’ve got on there sort of thing, you know
LM: Mmm (2.0)
S: And like you’ve got digital coming out now and that’s all about computers as well
LM: Yeah
S: Eventually you can, your telly will be a computer sort of thing
LM: Yeah
S: So, that’s about it really
J: [laughs]
(2.0)
LM: And have either of you heard anything about like shopping on the Internet? S: Er yeah shopping, yeah
J: Um…
S: It’s like you’ve got cable now and they have shopping channels, that sort of thing (1.5) but um, I suppose it’s different. You phone them up don’t you on that sort of thing… Er yeah we’ve heard of shopping and that on the Internet, yeah
LM: [to J] Have you heard anything…
J: Not really [laughs]
LM: …or read anything in magazines?
J: Er
LM: Alright well maybe I’ll show you some stuff that we’ve got cause, actually is it alright to put it up here, is that okay?
S: Sure, yeah
J: Yeah
LM: Cause we’ve been doing sort of some research on this we’ve found a few sites on the Internet where you can shop from, and I’ll show you and see what you think (2.0). So first of all, like this is where the phone bit comes in, this is going to use the phone and dial UCL, dial our college (4.0) to make a connection into the Internet, hopefully
S: Okay, right
LM: So that’s why it’s sort of, so it’s local rate call, that’s partly why it’s… No dial tone? Is it not plugged in right
S: Haven’t you got a dialling tone?
LM: No
[checks cable]
S: No that is in the right way
[checks cable again]
LM: Alright then
S: Should the light come on on this switch or not?
J: No
(4.0)
J: Any good now?
LM: No (4.0) I don’t think I’ve done anything wrong
S: It’s pretty straightforward isn’t it? LM: Yeah, there’s not much that can go wrong
(4.0)
S: Perhaps BT have cut us off [laughs]
[laughs]
J: No they haven’t, I just had a phone call
LM: Yeah, if you can get a phone, if you can get a dialling tone there…
J: Yeah
S: Yeah there is one
LM: That’s really strange
S: Well it might be the connection
LM: It was alright last time I used it
[checks cable again]
LM: I wonder if it makes any difference if I use… it shouldn’t though. We’ll have a bit of a problem if I can’t [laughs]
J: Oh
LM: Okay I’ll try another one (1.5) CompuServe
(5.0)
LM: It’s a different way of getting through
(7.0)
LM: No dial tone
S: Shall I um try another way or?
LM: Yeah I can’t work out if I’ve got this plugged in wrong or something
(3.0)
S: No that is the way
LM: Well there’s not many way it could be done differently really
J: Is that in the right way?
LM: Yeah
(2.0)
S: That’s annoying isn’t it
LM: That’s really strange isn’t it
(9.0)
LM: Okay
J: Where’s the lady’s tea?
S: Oh yeah I forgot
J: That’s strange isn’t it? I haven’t got another plug socket, I mean there’s one in the kitchen but that’s…
LM: No I’m just wondering if it’s this or… can I try it with this and see if it’s this extension lead that is messed up?
J: It might be innit
(10)
J: Is it working now?
LM: It just says it’s dialling at the moment, but it said that before [laughs]
J: Ah
LM: No dial tone (2.0) Okay. Ah
J: Is there something loose or something? LM: I think there might be
(8.0)
J: Sean will sort it out
LM: Oh well, never mind. I’ve got one other thing I can show you [laughs]. It’s not as exciting unfortunately
(4.0) LM: So do you do any like catalogue shopping at the moment?
J: Yeah, yeah, Freemans
LM: What sort of stuff do you use? Freemans?
J: Yeah
(3.0)
LM: And do you use that a lot?
J: Er
LM: How often would you say you got stuff from there?
J: Er every month
LM: Right
J: Yeah a few things, like I got a few things this week for the kids for Christmas
LM: Mmm
J: Um (1.5) yeah I use it quite a lot. It’s better than going out getting stressed out around the shops [laughs]
LM: Yeah right (2.0) And they’ve got  quite a lot of different ranges and stuff haven’t they?
J: Yeah, yeah it’s quite good Freemans, it’s good
(1.5)
LM: And have you ever, have you got like cable or satellite or anything
J: No, no. No I’ve never had cable. I’ve had a cable phone, but I didn’t keep the cable phone and er went back to BT
(3.5)
LM: And what about stuff like shopping through the telly, you know like if you have cable you can have those TV shopping channels. Would that appeal to you?
J: Yeah. Definitely yeah, it would be a lot easier innit
LM: Yeah
J: Yeah yeah I wouldn’t mind doing it
S: No joy?
J: No
LM: No
S: Oh no
(2.0)
J: There’s some biscuits. Do you want a sandwich or something?
LM: No, no I’m fine
J: You sure?
LM: No, no I’ve had some crisps
S: I wonder why that is then
LM: Yeah I can’t figure it out at all
J: Yeah there might be a loose wire in it
LM: Yeah I don’t know
J: It might be cause you’ve knotted it all up
S: It shouldn’t really
LM: It shouldn’t really matter, we’ve been using it alright
S: Yeah
(3.0)
LM: Ah well, I mean there’s one other thing which I will show which isn’t actually, it doesn’t need the Internet
J: Yeah
LM: So I’ll show you that first and…
J: Yeah
LM: This is Tesco’s. Tesco’s have got, they’ve got like a website on the Internet, and you can order food or anything from Tesco’s over there
J: Mmm
LM: But they also do this thing that they send you like a disk, you load it onto your computer and it like gives you a whole range of all the things they do like in your local Tesco’s…
J: Right
LM: …which you can browse through and you can make up like an ordering, like a list, a shopping list (2.0) and you know you can send it off to them. You could either fax it through or you could send it over the Internet or um
J: Mmm
S: Oh right
LM: So I wanted to know if you could have a look at that and…
S: Yeah sure
LM: …tell me what you think
(2.0)
S: Er it’s a good idea isn’t it really…
J: Yeah
S: …I mean it saves you going down to the supermarket
J: That’s what I says, yeah (…) me getting stressed out around the shops
S: [laughs]
S: It’s yeah…
[doorbell rings]
J: Oh that’s your daughter. He’s got an older daughter as well
LM: Oh right
J: We’ve got kids between us. She works in Tesco’s actually, his daughter, she’s just started there a few weeks ago, she’s sixteen
LM: Oh she can come and tell us what she thinks then
J: Yeah
LM: So do you want to have a go, I’ll show you how it works 
J:  Alright then 
LM:  This here is the mouse which is like a little arrow cursor that you move around
J: Oh right
LM: So you use that to get you around where you want to go and then you use this button on the left, you press it once, and it’ll select it so if you move it to the bakery and press that it highlights that…
J: Oh
LM: And it will show you like a list down there of different things in the bakery
J: Oh right
LM: And then if you use the arrow again to just sort of take you up and down the list (2.0) and press on there it’ll take you right down the list (4.0) So yeah, do you want to have a go? J: So what do I do? I press this one?
LM: Use this one to move you around, and just have a look at…
J: Oh it’s good isn’t it?
(2.0)
[daughter enters room]
LM: Hiya (2.0) I’m Liz
T: Hi
LM: We’re just looking at the Tesco website. I hear you’ve just started working at Tesco
T: Ye:ah
[laughs]
LM: You can tell us what you think as well then
(6.0)
T: Can’t get away from work
LM: [laughs] Yes
J: So I choose…
LM: Yeah you can use those arrows to go up and down the list, and then yeah…
J: Oh right
LM: …see if you fancy anything (5.0)
J: So what do I do now?
LM: Move it just a little bit more… Yeah that’s it
J: Oh right
LM: And it will take you down and you can (2.0) choose something you want
(7.0)
J: Strawberries
LM: Yeah. So if you like move the arrow onto strawberries (2.0) and then, that’s it, and then click on that one, yeah. Oh right [laughs] under strawberries you can have blackberries, raspberries or strawberries
J: Right [laughs]
LM: And then if you go over here to this thing (3.0) and if you click on it it adds it to your shopping. So now if you go up to checklist, and then click on that button again, that’s it, that’s fine
J: Ah right
LM: And this is a shopping list that we’ve been sort of… and it should have strawberries on there. What was it, ‘fruit, strawberries’ or something? Yeah, so it’s added a punnet of strawberries there (2.0)
J: Right
LM: And that’s all the other things that we’ve got in there. Gin, lager whatever [laughs]
J: [laughs] Right
LM: And it adds up like a little list. You know like you could keep adding things and taking it away
(3.0)
LM: [to S] Do you want to have a go? I’d like you both to have a bash at it
J: [laughs]
LM: So if you go back to the, yeah use this thing to move it up and down (1.5) and move it around to choose one of those (5.0) and then press this one on the left, yeah. And then that gives you like a list of things here (1.0) that are under ‘general goods’ apparently. If you use that again to move it to that little (2.0) to there and then press on there again it will move you down that list (3.0) till whatever you want to buy
S: So when you want to buy something like binliners say…
LM: Yeah
S: …you’d move the arrow to binliners? LM: Yeah that’s it and then click on it again with that button, and then it will give you [laughs] all the different kinds of binliners…
S: Oh
LM: …that you could possibly buy
S: Okay, so whatever binliners you need, say you need that one
LM: Yeah
S: Where would you go for that? LM: Click in the middle of the text, sort of there. And I think you have to click twice, a double click (2.0) that’s it. Oh why won’t it do it? (2.0) That’s it, so yeah, that’s added it to the list (2.0) Binliners
S: Alright, okay, that’s pretty good isn’t it?
J: It’s quite good isn’t it? Do your shopping like that innit [laughs]
S: Yeah
J: Saves you going to the shops [to daughter] you can do it on like the Internet
T: Oh right
J: Right
LM: What they do at Tesco’s is like you send this off um over the Internet or you fax it to them or whatever, and they have like, I think it’s only run on, which Tesco’s is it you work in?
T: Thornton Heath
LM: Right I don’t think they have it there at the moment, they’re sort of trying it in North and West London, also they’re doing it in Leeds I think. And they have people down at the shop who like get these lists in and go around and choose all the things you want…
J: Mmm
LM: …put them in a box and then they’ll be delivered
S: Right
LM: And like it’s a five pound delivery charge, but other than that like all the prices are the same
J: Yeah
LM: You can use your reward card, um do whatever
J: That would be a good idea really innit [laughs]?
S: Yeah
J: Saves you going out getting stressed out with your kids around the shops innit? [laughs]
T: Well it’s true, yeah
J: [laughs]
T: I didn’t know Tesco’s were doing it. I know they had a Net out, but I thought it was a children’s Net (2.0) and they’re doing a thing for kids, computers and that
LM: Right
J: Mmm
T: Don’t know what they’re doing though
LM: So you haven’t heard any talk about it at work then? (2.0) I don’t think they’re doing…
T: I don’t really take any interest (1.0) I just go in there, go on the till  and do my work and come home [laughs]
J: [laughs]
T: As long as they pay me I don’t care [laughs]
J: [laughs]
LM: Fair enough [laughs]
(2.0)
T: Actually it sounds quite good actually
J: Yes it does, doesn’t it?
T: If they bring this out I’d like to do it, do all the deliveries and that. Go around the shop instead of being on the till all day
S: [laughs]
LM: Anything to get off the till
J: Yeah it drives you mad doesn’t it? I was a cashier for like twelve years, drives you mad sometimes
T: Especially Saturdays. I work twelve till nine on Saturdays and it’s, that is the most busiest peak, ah…
LM: Everyone coming in on Saturday afternoons for their bargains as well
J: Mmm
T: It’s like everyone is coming to your till and you’re like “go away”…
LM: [laughs]
T: …especially at like eight o’ clock and it’s still busy and you’re trying to, you get off your till to clean up your till…
LM: Mmm
T: …to make them think that you’re not working [laughs] but they still come along and ask you if you’re working
LM: Ah
(1.5)
S: So like from that, that’s like cause it’s not, you can’t get onto the Internet obviously…
LM: Yeah
S: …um (2.0) but just from that computer there what you’ve got all those options, is there (2.0)
LM: What do you mean, like is, do you mean these bits here or…
S: Yeah
LM: These are all just different things that work on the computer, like this is like a word processing package…
S: Right
LM: …which you can sort of work, type letters on or um (2.0) this Tesco thing is the thing we’ve just got up there (1.5) um CompuServe is the one we tried just now, that’s the people who sort of provide access to the Internet, you know you pay whatever, five pound a month or something
S: Okay
LM: You know, and you can use the Internet through them
S: Brilliant. Right, okay…
LM: Um (2.5) that’s the connection to the university, where we dialled them up and…
S: Yeah
LM: …(…) do it for us as well
S: Do you want to try it again?
LM: Do you think you 
J:  Try it again yeah
S: Try it again
LM: We’ll give it a go
S: You never know
LM: I’m a bit sort of concerned, but I don’t know if it’s something I’ve done… cause this little thing came undone just now
(12.0)
J: No?
LM: No. Oh well, I’ll have to try it, take it to a technician at college tomorrow or something
S: That’s strange isn’t it?
(2.0)
T: How much does this laptop cost you then?
(2.0)
LM: It’s probably cost about two and a half thousand pounds when it was bought, but…
?: Cor
LM: …it’s probably not worth that now…
J: Mmm
LM: And the same thing wouldn’t cost you the same amount now
J: Yeah
LM: Like with the prices are coming down very quickly, and they devalue very quickly
J: Yeah


Ut5

User trial 5 19.10.98, C2DE cohabitees with young children, no PC

L (mother), G(father), M (son), L (daughter)

PL: All, right, can we start by you all saying what your names are? (1.5) Who’s going to start? You start
(Child’s laughter)
L: My name’s L
M: My name’s M
PL: I’m Pete
G: I’m Gary (...)
(Laughs)
G: And that’s B sitting down(...)
PL: It’s all right, all right, that’s very nice, thank you, can you say your name?
[laughs]
PL: Well, all right, what we’re talking to people about is erm, a bit about the Internet so what do you all know about the Internet?
(2.0)
G: Well, I’ll tell you the biggest thing I know about the Internet
PL: Go on
M: Is that Demon Internet (...) support and that’s about it
[laughs]
G: And they got a big two million deal or something like that  they, and I think they’re one of the biggest, what I heard they’re a big company, but I don’t really know anything other than that, other than that I think their offices are out ur urm (2.0) where’s it callled? Dorking, my sister works at British Gas and she has the Internet in her office and that is it
PL: M, do you know anything about it?
M: Erm, erm I don’t know
PL: Have you done it at school?
M: No
PL: Have you heard about it?
M: Yeah
PL: What have you heard about it?
M: Erm, erm (...) it’s just talking about it and they tell us all e-mail numbers and all that
PL: Right
G: That’s all the dot dot com and 
(...)
L: My friend’s got one and she does her shopping on it over the Internet, (...) and they deliver it up to her (3.0) shopping and also she was looking for a car and erm, erm she got pictures
Lo: We were looking for a car but when our car was (...)
L: But we had to go to a showroom when we were finding a car didn’t we? (2.5) And choose the colour
PL: (...) the American (...)
L: (...)
Lo: Got broken in and the radio stolen
PL: Yeah erm (...) my radio this morning
[laughs]
Lo: That’s about right, I mean you see those ads for w w w dot 
PL: Do you know what that means?
Lo: Is it some sort of details about a program when you put it in?
PL: Right and do you know what Demon Internet do?
G: I don’t know whether they’re a marketting company for it, I don’t know, other than that I mean there’s nothing else on the y’know like on the (...) there it is you see Demon Internet and they’re advertising the program and things like that, but, I don’t specifically know what they are (2.0)
Are they one of the biggest?
PL: Actally, no
G: They’re the only one I’ve even heard of, I’ve never heard of nothing else I don’t know
PL: Do you not do thisat school?
M: After er half term, cos then we do IT
PL: I meant does the school (...) 
M: Yeah
PL: OK, when do they let you go on these?
M: Erm, they just let you do things erm, every once a week we do IT 
PL: Right
M: We’ve got IT books and we write what (...)
L: It (...) we looked at two schools for him (...) and Archway and looked around the computer room and asked were they connected to the Internet? And we’d never thought of that, and they said we’re one of the few schools that are, but that’s (...)
Lo: (...) said that because we’re  (...) it it was less (...)
PL: Didn’t anyone use it?
Lo: No (2.0) (...)
PL: Yeah, I know that That’s quite nice
(...)
Lo: (...)
G: Talk properly, you’re talking...
Lo:..
L: At nursery it’s very popular
PL: Oh, right and (...)
L: They used to have a book with the cat in it, but now (...)
PL: The cat?
Lo: The Cat in the Hat
PL: Do you do that?
L: She ends up playing with (...) she likes pictures and (...)
Lo: (...) on the computer Jake needs to go on it after school... (4.5) (...)
M: We have a computer in the library, urm, that has the Internet and...
PL: Oh, right
M: I don’t like (...) erm, it had one game, where you could operate and... 
Lo:  (...) come down the library and I go on the computer (...) on it 
L: Our local library you mean?
G: The one at school
Lo: Yeah, our library at school has a computer in there and we get bored looking around at the books and we get to er, we look and all the time we’re looking at books, y’know after we’ve read a little bit of the book we have to sit back down and another form comes in
G: (...) rapid reading that computer Didn’t have computers when I was at school, no well, we had one but that was just as I was leaving so I feel like I’ve missed out (2.0), yeah I do feel that, like I’ve missed out but er, it was 1976 when I left school and I know we had one in the maths department and then (1.5) er you was lucky if you had a chance to go and (...) but they only had it a few months before I left and that was it and I really do feel I missed out there
(3.0)
PL: What about when they (...) 
G:  That’s why as well, and you sort of walk into shops and you look at at Dixons and all these things about er er hard drive, 32 mega whatever 
(...)
Lo: I noticed how they can 
G: It really doesn’t and I’ve looked at them now and I’ve noticed how you get how they’re different and y’know and to me what does it mean? (2.0) It doesn’t mean much
L: I read that (...) about it didn’t I and I’ve got lots more (...) at work and them er is it Virgin?
G: Eh
L: Virgin they’re (...) to do the children’s homework 
G: Oh you (...)
L: And I sent it out to you didn’t I? It was like Virgin Directory I think it’s got erm it’s the same as the curriculum they follow at school and it’s got and you call it up and it’s everything you need to know and it’s teaching (...) but you can look it up and it’ll help you on there... and (...) with his homework 
G: We’ve been told that at school, that said that to me it’s cheating if they use it didn’t they say something like that to me the other day?
M: (...) it’s erm a bit more (...) really should come down and (...) it’ll be more or less cheating because I won’t have the right idea about what they look like
PL: Right
G: I think it’s a bit... the reason behind that can be like how our children can be so used to calculators and they’re not learning how to do long division and things like that cos it’s perhaps that’s what they’re thinking that they might use those (...)
(...)
Lo: (...) on the computer and then they come out (...) 
PL: What when they do like  drawings you mean?
Lo: Yeah, they can do them on the computer...
PL: All right, I’ve got a computer here, I’m going to get it out and you can have a go on it 
(15.0, background noise)
PL: Here we go
(General murmuring as PC set up)
PL: It’s quite small
(More background noise)
PL: Now I just have to figure out...
Lo: (...)
G: She’ll say anything, she hasn’t stopped
PL: Right, then, right, who’s going to work the computer?
(...)
PL: Right, OK, come here Right, come on then
L: Is this what they call a laptop?
PL: Yeah
L: That (...) like the big ones as well
PL: Um hmm
Lo: (...)
G: Like a little ones like a laptop that looks like something a child can... 
Lo: (...)
PL: I’m just turning it on here
G: Do you want to come and sit here?
PL: Here it comes
M: (...)
L: ...M’s been round there a lot 
G: Yeah, but they just play games on it don’t they, 
M: And Alex has got a computer as well
PL: What games have they got?
M: Um Dave and Alex have got a football games
PL: Right
L: (...)
M: Football Manager ’98...
(1.0)
L: Oh, it’s brilliant, it looks like a TV doesn’t it?
M: Yeah
(9.00)
(Windows chime)
G: Sit down now, there
PL: Right lets get started (...) You’ve got lots of different things on it as you can see and there are lots of different things you can do on a computer (...) can help calculate things on there, it’s like a calculator, (...)
M: (...)
PL: That’s for my researcher, she’s got a space with her own files in them that’s all the things she’s been writing about (1.0) and (...)
[laughs]
PL: There’s a maths workshop, my children have been playing on this computer
L: (...)
PL: Then there’s something called Wordshop which is spelling (...)
Lo: (...)
G: She thinks it’s a toy
L: (...)
Lo: (...)
PL: Right, now on that screen I’d like to find out So now what I’m going to do...
L: (...) (laughs)
PL: That’s a chess program, now this is erm, what I’m going to do now is to connect to my to work (...) what area code are we
L: Sorry? oh 0181
PL: Right, should be all right
G: We’re just on the borders of that
PL: Oh, right
G: 0171, 0181 and that, just across the other side of the road
PL: Ah, it’s gone through this is my password, this is my computer name, this is my (...)
(4.0, typing noises)
PL: (...) Now what it’s doing now is it’s dialling (4.0)
G: SO it’s going down our line now?
PL: That’s right Not in my office but er at my work there’s a larger computer which has a number of phone lines connected to it and away (2.0)
Lo: (...)
L: Is this on the Internet?
PL: Yeah
L: Oh
PL: Right, here we go, now it’s checking my password to make sure I’m (...) and now it’s connected now what we can do is actually go onto the Internet just go onto the Internet so... (2.0) let’s have a look at something (...)
M: Can we do that?
G: (...)
PL: Do what?
M: (...)
PL: Could do actually, try that (2.5) now you’re looking for Netscape (...) program So there’s all the different programs on the computer uh (10.0) there it is that one Netscape Navigator anavigator that’s going to help us navigate around the, around the er (...)
G: Right
(8.5)
PL: Right OK 
(10.0)
PL: It’s just loading up the program that that helps us find what we want to
(4.0)
L: Is it easier to plug into a (...)
PL: Yeah 
G: Oh dear
PL: (...) That’s it so now it’s as if we were talking to someone 
(2.0)
L: Oh right
PL: Yeah 
G: Is it cheaper or...
PL: It’s just the same 
G: But this is all the time it’s running this time
PL: Yes 
Lo: (...)
PL: Now what shall we what do you want to look for? What was it you wanted to look for?
(...)
M: Yeah I know it does it has (...)
PL: Yeah well we’ll try the other 
(3.0)
PL: That’s it we’ll put that in and see where it gets us
(2.0)
PL: That’s gone on search the web and ... for Miami
L: Miami t-shirts
M: A chocolate bar
L: That’s FC M
M: .. I think
PL: Is that an American term?
M:Yup
G: He’s like like got a German one now and a French one
M: There is some confusion because of some people like me
PL: This must be the Danish urm...
G: Unnofficial Barcelona that’s what they (...) say it’s an unofficial one as well (...)
PL: Really?
G: Yeah  (2.0) I meaan if we got Demons (...)
M: That was the unofficial visit giving you the wrong things
(...)
(...)
(...)
PL: Go to the next town that’s it the next town
(5.5)
G: Ooh  (...) call
PL: Yeah I know what it’s (...) FC It’s giving us all the football teams because it’s found FC
G: Yeah it’s dazzling 
(1.5)
Lo: I can see FC
L: What then does the arrow erm to doing that? 
PL: Do you want to have a go?
L: (...) Let me have a go
(...)
PL: It’s back to FC again that’s it now back
M: (...) football teams
(3.0)
PL: I might just  put (...) and see what comes up
G: And what would and what would I see?
M: (...)
G I did (laughs)
L: Did that make it not pick it up then?
PL: Yes, it tried but it... didn’t know what I was talking about
G: That’s why it picked up the FC was it then rather than...
PL: Probably didn’t get anything
L: [Laughs]
Lo: Now it does
PL: Let’s see what we’ve got
L: (...) trade
PL: Yes, we’ll have a look at that in a minute 
Lo: (...) BMW
PL: Well let’s see if there’s any concerts
L: (...) concerts, yeah
PL: This must be the club website 
(3.0)
PL: It’s the unnofficial (...) club website
L: (...)
G: (...) you guys over and watches the training 
L:  does how does somebody put the information in there?
PL: I think he said I think he said it’s a thingy that (...)
PL: Ah right
G: I think he said unfortunately I’m unable to (...) I’ve done something!
PL: It’s not working
(4.0)
L: Did somebody put that information in there?
(3.5)
Lo: Do you have to get paper in there?
PL: Let’s see
Lo: Do you have to put paper in there?
PL: Do they cut up pages?
L: (...)
PL: Oh no, the pages aren’t coming out (...)
Lo: That’s it
PL: Is that it?
L: Is it printing ?
PL: Oh right, yes
(...)
(...)
PL: (...) and then it prints the pages as well and then you (..) the number of pages so if you want to print 
G:  (...)
PL: That’s right
(6.5)
PL: That’s it now right... What have we got? We’ve got... (...)
(3.0)
G: That’s that’s just (...)
PL: Ah right (...)
G: (...)
M: That was there
(2.0)
PL: That’s right they beat them in the final (...) ’74
G: (...)
Lo: (...)
PL: That’s right that’s FA we’re going to try this one now...
(...)
Lo: Does it work
(9.0)
PL: What’s on Earth’s MLC ?
(2.5)
M: (...)
PL: Is that MLC?
(1.5)
(...)
L: Call someone’s... just press directory is that how you do it?
PL: Search (...) Put it in 
Lo: (...)
L: Well I’m pushing the buttons to see (...) the band
PL: Unable to (...)
(...) 
Lo:  (...)
M: (...)
L: (...) is through (4.0) Does it not tell you about that?
PL: Errr yes good point that’s right that’s right unfortunately it’s not and (...)
(4.0)
PL: It still doesn’t like it
(5.5)
M: After  
Lo:  Why does it say LC
PL: Well that’s funny isn’t it that’s that doesn’t work
(3.5)
Lo: (...)
(4.5)
G: (...)
M: On TNT they have something about erm  
Lo: 
M: wrestling and it had 
G:  got LC there not FC
M: and it had said that
PL: Oh right hang on... 
(2.0)
G: That’s it now
Lo: (...) can’t seem them
PL: Can’t see very well
G:(...)
PL: (...) MC here, right (1.0) Right now ah er (3.0) Right here we are that’s (...)
L: We’ve got an expert here
Lo: Welcome
PL: Ah
(3.0)
LP: Right this is it this is the er ah here we are let’s find out what else is 
L: We can tell it which one? Some sort of program really
M: The squad
(4.0)
PL: Who’s that
M: Keegan
PL: Ah Right what we can do now with this is to er yes, put bookmarks (2.0) like you can place bookmark so next time you come along you can just go to the bookmark
M: Like this
PL: And there it is it’s right there... 
L:  Oh right
PL:...on that and then go there 
L: So if there’s that that you sort of want to call out...
PL: Yeah once you’ve done it a few times you can find the ones you want 
M: Oh right
PL: And then you can 
Lo:  (...)
L: How long how quickly (...)
Lo: Is that (...) autograph there
M: Yeah I’ve got that one
PL: Is that his autograph
M: Yes (...) on there
PL: Oh right who’s going to have a go?
M: (...)
(...)
(...)
L: Press the button M
PL: (...)
(2.0)
M: Do I press ’enter’?
PL: Enter that’s right
(6.0)
PL: (...)
G: Train tickets sold out to Liverpool
L: (...)
PL: Are they playing here?
M: (...)
G: In the cup tie game yeah
Lo: Why are they playing in Liverpool?
M: Yeah
G: There this er er (...) 
Lo:  Yeah but they(...)
G: what you’re saying about there on that top one, is all where it says about 
M:  (...)
G: week old news
PL: Yeah right
G: That’s now being done
Lo: (...)
PL: To change this, someone’s got to er y’know work it out and change it so
G: Would there be would there be more um stop press or  
Lo:  (...)
G: the latest sorts of things?
PL: (...)
G: Move it one up B
(...)
L: oops (laughs)
G: just come down bit slower that’s right
M: Yeah look
(3.0)
PL: It’s not easy is it? It’s a bit...
(...)
(...)
Lo: I got it 
G: Press that
PL: That’s it
(...)
PL: Click that now Press this one
(1.0)
M: What in numbers is it?
PL: Ur
M: When you press that button 
(...)
(...)
G: Still didn’t do it oh right is that (...) stop press
PL: Look at that 
L: It’s last night yeah
PL: So they got the
L: The (...) score
M: Can you try the Squad?
PL: Yeah
(4.5)
PL: Yeah that’s good
G: Once you get the get the (...) 
L: Press the button
(2.5)
PL: Yeah well done
G: (...)
(12.0)
Lo: There
PL: Now (...) and a message
L: Oh yeah?
PL: Try it
(...)
(...)
PL: What do you want to say?
G: So you can send a message to to the message (...)
L: Find the message (...) you can do that yourself 
PL: Yeah What are you going to say?
L: (...)
M: To Phil (...)
G: (...)
[laughs]
(...)
M: How about... 
G: (...)
PL: What do you want to say?
(2.5)
Lo: (...) write
PL: Oh I don’t know I couldn’t think of anything to send
L: What do you want to send 
M: What?
Lo: (...)
M: Shall we (...)
L: What do you want to say
G: (...)
PL: All right I’m going to show you 
G:  This just shows you the different things that it can do
PL: That’s right it’s just... so now you can get (...)
M: (...)
PL: But er
M: Can we see what’s on the squad
L: Right but er
PL: Got to press that button
L: You do it 
(5.0)
M: McElemy he hasn’t even..
G: (...) QPR three - one didn’t they but I know the other ones got beat eight five 
Lo: (...)
PL: Well what we can do is look at some other things now 
(...)
M: (...)
PL: What I want what I want to show you now is this stuff about shopping on the net
G: Oh right
L: (...)
G: That’s with Tesco’s is it 
Lo: (...)
PL: Now where would you what would you like to see 
M: Sainsbury’s 
G: (laughs)
Lo: What one (...)
G: I see that yeah I see it  
M:  (...)
G: Southampton or something 
PL: That’s where 
G: What University College Gower Street
PL: Yeah that’s it
Lo: Why does it show your picture?
PL: And the rest There’s this bookstore (...)
Lo: London
(3.0)
PL: (...) Car shop 
Lo: Car shop
PL: Want to have a look at a car?
L: (...)
(...)
L: Information and where you can find it
Lo: Shopping
L: (...)
M: Do they show you any pictures of the cars? or what they look like?
(...)
(...)
PL: Books CD’s books CDs
Lo: I love books
PL: Do you? Shall we have a look try that one? That’s a bookshop
(...)
(...)
Lo: Yeah
M: Yeah
(...)
M and Lo talk over one another
Lo: I want a go
(2.0)
PL: Waterstones over one million books
M: We were there
(...)
(...)
(...)
Lo: This is Monday
L: All right
Lo: Why does it say that?
M: Cos it’s the date
PL: So now it’s got (..) dates They’ve got books there or you can search for books shall we try that
Lo: Yeah
PL: These are some books they’re selling in the shop
G: They give prices as well 
L: (...)
Lo: (...)
M: Childrens books will be (...)
L: Sounds good
Lo (...)
PL: Gives you information about them
L: Oh right
G: So you just go to there and just click on them?
PL: That’s right
(2.0)
PL: Anything that’s a slightly different colour 
G: Oh right
PL Is like a link to another page
Lo: Why is it (...)
L: (...)
PL: It’s connecting up that’s (...) the data
Here it is Book of the Month 
(1.5)
G: Is it always as quick as that?
Lo: I am (...)
PL: This is about 
M: I’ve seen that
G: Some times I’ve think some y’know (...) like his Playstation 
PL: Yeah
G: And you sit there... 
Lo:  (...)
PL: And it still takes time doesn’t it you turn the graphics on and you just want to read the text and it comes through much quicker because it’s the graphics that take a long time So here’s this here’s this book  that’s 
L:  (...)
PL: That’s the cover 
G: Right looking it up
Lo: Can we see pictures in their
M: Would this tell you ur 
L:  This is the cover
PL: Yes this is the cover but maybe it does show more of the book maybe we can see inside it’s a good idea to see inside
M: Mum
PL: It’s got stuff about it and a bit (...) of the book 
Lo:  (...)
L: Honey
Lo: Where he said it’s a pot 
G: (...)
Lo: (...) the gate (...) for one of the others and (...) in colour by the author
G: (...)
PL: She gave us what (...) it was huge and we made this (...) out of it and I’ve still got some 
L: Have you?
PL: (...) must be another one
G: (...)
L: Show the man (...) in hardback
(2.5)
(...)
G: Now we (...)
Lo: (...) how to order
M: What so what you press
PL: Press that
Lo: They all did it now
(2.0)
PL: Mmm well it’s giving me a security message so for a bit of (...) information so now some information is going from us to them not just just one way
L: Right
(3.0)
Lo: What what (...)
L: It’s going to check isn’t it?
PL: Here we are it says put it in our (...)
L: Oh right yeah
PL: It’s got (...) so 
Lo:  But that picture
PL: These are from a magazine 
M: Did you see what urm when er the er Playstation games are coming out 
PL: Yeah, shall we look at Playstation games 
Lo:  He’s got one
PL: Ah yeah we can do that... erm 
(6.5)
Lo: Now it’s (...) cos man wants to go there
PL: would you like to go there? We can check it out and do the er erm search for Playstation it’s Playstation
L: Playstation Games 
PL: My son’s been hassling me to get him a Playstation (2.0)
Lo: Are you going to get one?
PL: I don’t really...
[laughs]
Lo: Haven’t you got a computer?
(2.0)
PL: Well yes and we use it 
(...)
(...)
L: (...)
Lo; What’s that?
PL: It’s erm  PSX, Playstation web pages
M: Yes
PL: Is Playstation correct?
M: Cheats
PL: Cheats er this (...)
M: There’s there’s one game where erm you have to... it’s coming out on the 22nd of November on N64 on Playstation and it’s coming out and you make a 
Lo: (...)
PL: Could do it (...) Welcome to Playstation Direct
Lo; Everything’s Playstation
PL: (...)
G: It’s probably a mailing thing to you isn’t it?
PL: Yeah 
G: Meaning you get direct...
PL: That’s it It’s sort of like mail 
Lo: (...)
PL: You know that all (...) and credit card
Lo; Why has it got (...) up there
L: Right so you just press send and...
PL: Right that’s that just takes us back to where we started
G:(...)
PL: It’s my  (...) Now what 
M: World Wrestling WCW V (...) Revenge
PL: (...)
Lo: (...)
G: Will you hold on please
(2.0)
PL: Charts, charts do you want to see the most popular games?
M: Yeah 
PL: Or new games
M: New Games
PL: All right let’s see what it says
M: It’s not out yet
LP: Isn’t it? Tekken 3 Tekken 3 the latest in the Tekken series Touring Cars (...)
Lo: Haven’t you got that one?
PL: Gran Turismo, Resident Evil 2, Which one was it you were looking for?
M: WCW  (...) Revenge
(2.0)
M: Doesn’t look like it’s there
PL: It doesn’t does it It’s not there is it It’s not out yet 
M: No it’s not
(3.5)
(...)
Lo: Why don’t you look for (...)
G: They’re only games that are out now aren’t they?
PL: Yeah
M: So it wouldn’t be here
PL: It’s not in there yet
(5.0)
PL: Right (2.0) But you can see what you do there
G: Yeah
PL: You use the buttons then you can find out about the game or order it sometimes you can get down y’know (1.5) images from the games 
M: See them
(2.0)
G: Right what else shall we try
PL: Do you want to see (...)
(4.0)
Lo: Go straight to there
PL: Marks and Spencers 
(14.0)
PL: Right we (...)
Lo: Can I (...)
L: (...) take care that’s hot
Lo: Men dressing 
(...)
(...)
L: Do they show you the clothes 
PL: I don’t know want to try it
(2.0)
L: (...)
Lo: (...)
G: Where’s the name?
(...)
G: Ladieswear Mum said
L: Ladies wear M
G: Right when you get to Ladieswear M let (...) get the thing and that’s the odd... 
Lo: Click back 
M: That’s it
(3.0)
G: Does show graphics
L: That lets us in 
M: That is how you...
PL: Yeah (...)
G: So if you can’t 
Lo:  show it out (...)
M: Low battery
PL: Oh
(...)
L: Almost on the second bit are we?(laughs)
M: Shall I click it?
G: Did you...
L: If you do it on telephone like Bush Telecom or (...) have a look at that
G: It’s working now isn’t it? So
L: I’ll have it show up on my bill
Lo: What’s that?
(2.0)
PL: It just comes up as a conversation 
L: Oh right
PL: Except it’s always to the same number so you know what it is
G: Yeah, just go down the er
L: (...)
G: It’s just like being on the phone now
Lo: (...)
(4.0)
PL: Is that (...) Which one would you like to look at?
L: (...)
G: I think you can get into the 
Lo:  BBC
G: Shh
(6.0)
L: Twenty second (...) don’t know what it is (laughs)
M: How much would a little one like this cost or can’t you buy it?
PL: (...)
Lo: Watch that
PL: There are more expensive ones than this (...)
(..)
M: What like the big ones 
G: Click on scroll bar to view photographs so what’s that then the scroll bar (2.0)
L: You can take these (...) 
Lo:  (...)
PL: So what do you think of the pictuers
L: They’re very clear 
(...)
Lo: Want to get them
G: So you’re going to get them for Mummy go on then 
Lo: What’s footwear is that shoes
PL: (...)
Lo: And they’ve got Autumn
G: What did I do there?
PL: You have to press the (...)
G: Oh right Sorry
PL: (..) so that’s as far as it goes but aha this one you can no no here (2.0) that’s it
G: Tell you what the sizes probably came out of a (...)
PL: Now we’re getting a photograph
L: Oooh 
G: Thirty five pound 
PL: That and(...) 
G:  probably a catalogue number as well
L: Very good isn’t it
(2.5)
Lo: Why doesn’t they show you the books then?
G: Calm down
M: (...) get to choose
PL: (...) (2.0) (...)
G: And that’ll make the picture bigger?
PL: Yeah
Lo: Make it bigger
L: (...) 
[Laughs]
(...)
PL: No I can’t
Lo: Why 
PL: I can’t do that on this
L: It’s big enough B
PL: Yeah it is yeah
G: It’d be nice to have it (...) I mean you’re getting more of an idea off that picture than what you are (...)
PL: Do you see yourself ordering something from this or would you prefer to shop for shoes?
L: I think I probably would
Lo:(...)
G: Something like a Directions catalogue or that it’s the same thing isn’t it?
L: It is yeah
Lo: (...) does it have toilets?
M: No toiletries
G: It wouldn’t have them in stock would it? It wouldn’t go that far?
PL: er
L: What would happen if you (...) in fact on the Internet
PL: I could send you a er (...)
L: (...)
Lo: Do they do that to you?
(...)
(2.0)
PL: Yeah that’s right
(2.0)
L: Right well lets see (...) Tht’s a bit nice isn’t it?
Lo: Does it (...) and then it’s all nice
L: You’d think that something like this’d you’d (...) into it 
Lo: (...)
M: Did you have to take this out to drag it in
G: There’s little thingies there to that’s available and you can see em on there at the same time (laughs) 
PL: There is
G: Good god I would’t want to see your sister on there
M: I’ve seen that before Yeah I’ve seen someone talking on a little screen in the corner
G: Yeah right
L: And you can talk to them and the talk back to you
M: Yeah
G: You can see their image in the...
Lo: Hello
M On a TV show I don’t know where I’ve seen it but I have seen it 
PL: It’s like a little camera on here (...)
Lo: Did you get one
L: Cos they’ve just got someone in America
PL: Well yeah you see we the Internet doesn’t make any distinction between Britain and America so we can go to America (...)
M: Ah (...)
PL: Here we are this one CD Now Who likes music?
M: Me 
Lo: I do
(1.0)
PL: You two 
G: Well this is America so you can order
Lo: Does it play you it?
PL: A bit What do we want to hear?
(2.0)
M: (...)
PL: If you liked 

(End of Tape Side)

PL: That’s up your line
Lo: (...)
M: We got she has (...)
L: She’s been to a record shop or to their (...)
G: These are dollars isn’t it?
(...)
PL: Yeah these are dollars Which ones that? Is that an LP?
Lo: I don’t know 
G: Yeah
PL: (...)
Lo: They stop stop right now
PL: Stop Right Now yes, stop that’s it Stop
Lo; Stop yeah
PL: Stop
(6.5)
Lo: I like that 
PL: Yes that’s right my (...)she sings it
L: (laughs) Little concert entertainer
(6.0)
PL: Stop 
G: What tracks are there?
(4.5)
PL: I’m trying to get itbut it won’t (...) that one
(19.0, Background noises)
M: Do you have to put headphones on to listen to it though? 
PL: No
(3.0)
Lo: Is it like a record?
(...)
(...)
PL: (...)
M: (...) Song like (...) some mobile phones are like computers ’cos they’re like they have you know the games like (...) you can get them on computers
(1.5)
L: (...)
PL: Is it SpiceWorld or Spice? I’ll try Spice
M: Or is it (...) has got one and it and he’s got erm he’s got a game on it
L: A telephone?
M: Mmmhmm (1.0) Like it’s called snakes
PL: So which was the one you wanted?
L: Which one was the one you wanted?
(2.0)
PL: The one with Wannabe? (...)
Lo: Wannabe
PL: Wannabe Right Here we go (2.5) It’s going off to another copy of it 
(Strains of Spice Girls)
PL: (...)
(...)
(Conversation obscured)
PL: So it gives you a sound bite so you can 
L: So you can
PL: You can choose
Lo: Is it like a record?
LP: It’s just like a record yeah Right Great OK Now I’m going to (3.0) Do this now 
M: Home
L: Is that not a new set
G: You said that was Hong Kong you got there that’s Hong Kong
Lo: Get the picture free Did you
M: No
PL: Right I want to show you Tescos You were saying someone had used this
L: A friend yeah
LP: Yeah so this is this is the... They send you a CD in the post 
L: That’s right, yeah 
PL: And this is the program that you get
G: Right yeah and that’s and that they send that every so often? 
PL: Yeah 
G: 3-D (...) is it
Lo: Have we been to Sainsbury’s yet? I don’t (...)
PL: No we ur we (...) it’s like we er...
G: Yeah
PL: They’re not on there
Lo: Oh
PL: So now you can choose what you like and (...) what would you like?
Lo: Errr 
PL: (...) or groceries or bakery or
Lo: (...) bagels 
PL: Bagels and bread Naan bread
L: It’s just How do you tell it?
PL: Here we are cakes, what kind of cakes do you like? (...) cake American style Continental cakes, (...) cakes
G: Do they do Yum-yums? (laughs)
Lo: Do they do Yum-yums
M: No they only do them in Marks and Spencers
G: Are you sure? They’re like a doughnut anyway aren’t they
(2.0)
PL: Cakes, tarts that’s it that’s all they’ve got
G: No crumpets
L: Crumpets won’t be there
Lo: Can we have crumpets? (...)
L: So (...)
PL: ...here’s the price list
M: That’s that’s different types of
Lo: Crumpets
L: So what do you do if you want to order that?
PL: Oh right so you want to you just push the button, double click on it 
L: OK 
PL: And then drag it and put it in your basket
L: (...) Oh right it’s like that
PL: Well this is the this is your shopping basket and you’ve been buying lots of things
Lo: (...)
PL: You’ll have spent a hundred and thirty pounds
L: Oh, right
PL: And it adds it all up for you and tells you what the cost is
L: Do you have to is there a cost to deliver They must I suppose
G: And is there credit card
PL: Debit card
M: Is that like a disk or is it on there anyway
PL: This ones loaded onto the computer isn’t it?
M: Yeah but it but but yeah
PL: Actually that’s a good point discounts are (...) 
L: Like you get your Loyalty Cards
PL: So any discounts, they give you a discount you can have er...
G: Right
L: Right
G: Instead of paying the full price sort of thing for
(...)
G: so you get a third off or whatever
PL: You get that off but
Lo: (...) discount
PL:(...)
L: What are you saying
M: I was saying when is the Internet
G: I think he’s worrying what it’s like to this (...) It’s going down a telephone wire instead of like...
M: I thought it was like a game or something 
PL: What the Internet?        
Lo: Yeah
PL: Well you know when we were going to these little places like the (...) and the (...)  
M: Yeah
PL: That like at the football club they’ve got a computer and that’s stored on the computer is the information about F so when we went to F we connected up to  that computer and got that and when we went to Marks & Spencers have a computer and we connected to that 
G: It’s just like 
Lo:  (...)
G: anywhere in the world
Lo: And Tescos
PL: Yep, Tescos
G:(...)
L: Can you do this for the (..) for us
PL: Yep
G: 24 Hours in the post And when would you know when they’ll deliver to you?
PL: Ah yeah, when you go there they arrange (...) two hour (...) and six hour (...)
G: Yeah
PL: (...)
Lo: (...)
M: Are a lot of shops doing this?
PL: Yeah
L: Sainsbury’s?  Asda?
PL: Tescos and Sainsbury’s so far but
L: What about Marks and Spencers?
PL: Well they don’t do it for...
L: They had (...) didn’t they? 
PL: Yeah
Lo: I remember when we were at the caravan and we went to Tescos and we went and we saw a (...) on the way and it it (...) then the (...) came down
PL: Would you like to live in it?
Lo: Yeah
G: There are a lot of these things around now aren’t there 
PL: Yeah
G: I mean I’ve seen the Iceland one I’ve also seen I think I don’t know urm it may be Tesco’s 
Lo:  (...)
L: (...) actually sounds like she’s spent more money on this just shopping for things
G: I thought you’d spend more money when you go shopping
PL: Some people say that that they spend less on it
G: Yeah because if you right out your list then you’ll just go out and get everything but if you just sit there then you look
L: Yeah but she found the opposite
Lo: (...) she gave me a ticket from Tescos and it had a urm computer on it and I had to give it to
L: Schools
PL: Oh yeah, yeah right
M: Does that show you how to work the computer? 
PL: What that? That is the modem see (...) now this little thingy here makes (...) there that it’s er it’s a bit hot
L: Is that the battery?
PL: No no that’s that’s called the modem it connects the computer to the telephone
L: Oh right so without you can’t use the Internet
PL: That’s right you can’t connect it it just (...)
M:(...)
PL: So now more and more when you buy a computer they’re built in now
L: Oh right
(2.5)
PL: So what do you think?
G: It’s quite good
L: What do you think
Lo: (...)
G: No that’s what you’ve been doing going through the Internet and now you know what it’s all about
L: M are you getting this at school?
M: Urm yeah
G: (...) 
Lo:  (...)
PL: I know but I bet they try and (...)
M: I think it’s brilliant all the things you can do 
G: So do I
Lo; We do our times tables two and five and three
L: You get a bit carried away don’t you once you start
Lo: you can (...) all night and then (...) 
L: There’s so many things that you can do isn’t there?
Lo: (...)
L: It’s good it (...) and getting into that and (...)
Lo: It’s like a big computer, a real one
G: That’s that’s I’ve worked in people’s houses and I’ve seen these sorts of things One guy he had a er like a (...) graphics showing off
PL: Right yeah
G: Where you got your Hong Kong one that was his that was what he was into
Lo; On the computer
PL: On this you can for example change the background
M: To what?
PL: Let’s see what else we’ve got on here
M: Do they give you a list
L: On the Internet do you get many computers?
PL: Well the Internet (...) not really a thing or a place it’s like just any computer that connects up becomes part of it
L: Right
PL: So it’s just all over the place So while we were on it we were sort of part of it because (...) I don’t (...) There we are there’s our list Now what else have we got? (2.0)
M: Can you make your own one or do you have to...
PL: Subset’s quite nice 
(3.5)
PL: There it is
Lo: (...)
PL: That’s quite nice isn’t it Look sunset 
Lo: It’s dark there and light there A light bit there and there
L: (...) something better
PL: We down-loaded these pictures from the Internet
L: Ahh
M: You can down-load more 
Lo: (...)
PL: It’s not in there anymore, I pulled it out so they’re not connected anymore Yeah
L: It’s marvellous isn’t it?
PL: Do you see any downside to it?
(1.0)
L: Apart from being on it too much (1.0) y’know she’s like on the telephone I know it’s not a lot of money but if you use it a lot then it builds up
G: Yeah the phone bill yeah
Lo; When you get the ercord I thought it was on there
PL: Can’t use a record on this, it came down the telephone line 
L: From America It’s brilliant ’cos you can actually talk to people aswell
PL: Yeah, they’re just introducing that
L: Is that something special that you have to get onto or is it just 
PL: Yeah you have to have a special piece of kit (...) 
Lo:  Have you got one?
PL: I’ve got one at home but not on 
L: It’s brilliant isn’t it I mean if you’ve got (...) in America to speak to him 
PL: (...) only connected to your local  so then it’s only a local call so you can talk to someone in America for the price of a local call 
L: Fabulous
G: So that didn’t cost like if you was dialling to America that sort of prices?
PL: No all the time it’s just. 
G:  That’s what I was thinking to get away from America (laughs)
Lo: Can you (...)
G: The sound from there was really distorted because it was coming from there slightly or would you get a better sound...
PL: What it does is this, it sends (...) it sends it in packets by breaking up the information and sends it and it just gets sent the quickest way at any one time so the bits of your message get broken up some go this way, some that... and when it’s re-assembled it plays out like that and that creates the (...)
Lo: Can it go to Italy>
PL/G: Yes
G: It can go anywhere
Lo: So if if (...) it comes from Italy and he can go anywhere else?
PL: Could do If you want to go on holiday you can choose one
L: Oh, can you?
PL: Yeah 
L: ’Cos I’ve seen it on Teletext where you can just choose 
(...)
(...)
L: That’s brilliant
Lo: Can you look at a hotel now?
(2.0)
PL: It’s a bit more flexible than teletext
L: Yeah well teletext is very basic 
G: Teletext you also need to wait for the page to turn and stuff
(...)
(...)
G: And I think half the time that you’ve got an advert and you spend half the time reading the bottom
L: So you could check the holidays and they’ll (...) the schedules
PL: Yeah Thomas Cooks have got one
Lo: Why does that say (...) there
G: Do you want to quickly look at that then?
L: Can we look at that make some plans for half term (laughs)
G: Is there a problem there
PL: No we’ll just have to get back on-line
L: Oh that’s right it’s on the Internet What does it do off the Internet
PL: It’s got a word processor
L: So you can type letters and stuff
PL: For example here when I do presentations here I’ve got Power-point So when I do a talk I just plug this in it presents it (...) And this is my talk you see (...)
Lo: Is it all about you?
PL: No it’s more about... stuff
(laughs)
(...)
L: Are you (...) into this or do you type it all in 
PL: No no I type it all in and that can be plugged into a projector which projects the screen That’s Liz’s thing 
G: Like overheads
PL: Yeah that’s right I’ve got some games I should have brought some games with me to show you So here we are I’m writing a paper with Liz 
L: Can you get it to bring newspapers up aswell?
PL: Yeah you’ve got that
M: Can you look up magazines as well?
PL: Yep you can look up magazines see what they’ve got They usually show you an article or two or something to show you what they’re like and then you can do e-mail
L: Which goes to somebody else?
PL: Yeah you can send These are the ones that have come to me from other people
L: Oh right
LP: This tells you when they were sent and who sent them
L: Cos they’re very like y’know fax machines Is it like a fax where you can send a message
Lo:(...)
PL: You can actually send a fax from this aswell 
L: Oh right 
PL: But e-mail is like mail because it just sits and waits for someone to go to their computer and then you can collect it and see what the message is and then you can reply to it so if I want to reply
G: And you can be sure that she’s got your message?
PL: No, no you know that it’s gone you don’t know that she’s read it
L: And she won’t know it’s there until she picks up her e-mails?
PL: That’s right
G: So where’s er (...) you’ve got things so you know she’s got it your down side is you don’t know it’s (...) 
Lo: 
PL: Well this is the mouse Here’s a message This is a message to me and if I want to reply then I can reply to it like that (1.0) and it just automatically gets their address and it’s from me and this is what it’s about and I can just add what I want and...
(3.0)
PL: So there we go (7.0) There it is so that’s the e-mail package
L: Can it do things like y’know like M’s homework for instance 
PL: Yeah
L: If erm he wants to look up something from historywell can you call it up on there getting new information instead of (...)
Lo: Where does that go what’s that there?
PL: That’s Liz’s e-mail 
L: You keep asking that can you...
PL: and she can see who’s been talking to her (2.0) She’s not been reading her e-mail messages ’Cos the dot there says she’s not read it 
L: She’s not read any of them 
PL: I’d better not say too much about it because she’ll be listening to the tape
(laughs)
PL: But there’s a message from me to her see
L: Oh right This is from all these people From Margaret
Lo: Who’s Margaret
PL: I don’t know
L: What are these? Been there for days
PL: Yeah they have
(2.0)
L: And once she’s read it can she wipe it off?
PL: Yeah
Lo: When was your letter going to arrive
PL:  (...) 
L: Oh right, put it in the bin
(2.0)
PL: I’d better get it back because
L: Oh you can do that can you?
PL: Well yeah, what’s in the bin can be (...) so there it is
(4.0)
PL: There it is see so I put it back
Lo; Where?: In here down there
L: It doesn’t get (...)
PL: It will now as they’re here empty trolley
G: (...) e-mail messages
PL: It’s storing it on the hard disk and so you can get thousands
Lo: What are all they then? 
L: (...)
Lo: (...)
PL: I don’t think you should read that  OK No that’s fine Yeah if you’re doing your homework  then you know when we searched for like F FC and F you can put anything you like in 
M: Wow
G: So like Roman Empire
PL: It goes and (...)
G: (...) aswell the history of the Romans (laughs)
PL: And then you can y’know like the site once you get the site set up it tells you about the Romans and you can just print it off
G: Yeah
PL: Or save it
L: Like if they (...) Or geography
PL: You can find anything on there
Lo: But what’s that one there?
PL: Which one?
Lo: There
PL: That one oh that’s that’s a way of connecting to the Internet a different way than the one I’m using now and there’s another one There are lots of different ways and this is one too
G: (...)
PL: Right I’d better get moving actually it’ll be your bedtime
Lo: Are you going back to North London?
PL: Yeah
G: So what line’s that on?
PL: Piccadilly
G: Oh yeah
Lo: What does help mean?
L: Help
PL: OK show you how to use it
Lo: Show you how to use it to catch up a bit
PL: Yeah there’s quite a good help system on this Start there’s a whole help system there Tells you anything you want to know about it (4.5) (...)
Lo: Will it tell you what to do
PL: It’s because I’ve not used it 
L: Oh right
PL: There we go Find out about (...)
Lo: Clear
PL: Clear? (...)
G: And how much is one of those?
PL: Depends on (...) This one’s got a CD and (...) and stuff so it’s quite (...)
Lo: Are you going to watch TV?
M: Yeah 
L: Do you have to buy a printer seperate?
PL: Yeah but now they’re like this you can (...)
M: Can you justlike turn it on and (...) 
Lo: (...)
(...)
(...)
(...)
PL: And print but I can’t print ’cos I haven’t got a printer
Lo: I’d print it pink
PL: (...)
L: If you had lots of writing to do and you wanted to do a project you could just type it all out and then you’ve got a printer 
PL: Yeah That’s it (...) Do you like that?
Lo: I like pink 
PL: Yes I know I know
M: Has it got games?
PL: Yeah
G: There are games (...)
PL: They’re not very exciting games though 
Lo:  what are they
PL: (...)
Lo: Where’s 
(...)
PL: What colour do you want?
Lo: Er Pink
PL: That one
Lo: Yeah
PL: Go on have a go Hold that down and move the ball
M: You have to hold it down 
L: There we go (laughs)
PL: Hold it down again
M: It’s hard to write your name with this isn’t it?
PL: That’s it
G: It’s hard to control it
L: It’s a bit like etch-a-sketch isn’t it Oooh (laughs)
PL: It’s a bit more kid’s level (...) At least the way I play
Lo: (...)
LP: that’s right
(5.0)
L: You could do a different colour
G: what if you press something wrong and (...)
PL: (...)
G: screens and things like that
PL: You just ’undo’
G: And it takes you back
L: She’s still confused Just press ’help’
Lo: (...)
(...)
(...)
PL: There you go
L: The button’s there (...) do you is that (...) you type
PL: Yeah these ones up here?
L: No The top key
PL: Oh those those are function keys I don’t know what some programs have things where those are shortcuts and do a whole thing when you press one of those (2.0) All right? Brilliant
G: It’s a lot of erm (...)




Ut6

User trial 6, 19.10.98, ABC1 cohabitees with young children, own PC

M (father), A (mother), An (son), J (daughter)*

(...)
M: (...) You’ve got a computer there have you?
LM: Yeah 
(...)
LM: So yeah, the work I’m doing with P is about computers, and I really wanted to find out what you all know about computers, if you use them, when you use them and what you do with them.
M: Okay
LM: Perhaps we can go round and you can tell me your names again, and tell me 
An:  I’m An
J: J
LM: J. So what do you two know about computers?
An: Errrrm
M: Can I suggest you start with J?
LM: [laughs]
M: Do you want to go first J?
LM: Yeah, tell me what you 
M:  Yeah?
J: Um (1.5)
A: You use them at school don’t you?
J: (…) Macintosh 
M: Or would you rather An spoke first, and then you see what you know?
J: An
An: Okay (1.5) what do I know about computers? Quite a lot (2.0) um I know how to, I’m trying to work out how to make a database on Microsoft Works…
LM: Aha
An: …at the moment. Um, I play a lot of games and sometimes do my homework. Um (2.0) I know how to mess about with the desktop and the screen saver. And I also know how to put a password on a screen saver (2.0) My friend and his father were having a screen saver war [laughs]
LM: What’s that?
An: It was like, my friend puts passwords on the screen-saver, and then once you’ve got the password, so you have to turn off the computer (4.0)
(...) And we’ve got um, I used to go on Encarta
LM: That’s the encyclopedia, right
An: Um hm
LM: So do you use computers at school or at home?
An:  Ur, yeah, use them at school, and we’ve got a Macintosh, but I’d rather we had urm, um, Windows (...)
(10)
An: Urm, um I’m on them a lot and (...)
LM: How often do you use them?
An: Urm (3.0) It’s very rare that I don’t go in during the week, I mean I usually go in every day sometimes, every two days (3.5) yeah, Windows 97 (...)
LM: Right
An: We’ve done erm I’ve also had a (...) with my friends, I can build the longest bridge in the world in (...) as long as (...) and I told him how I’d do that and he (...) erm (4.0) erm and I use them to play
LM: You enjoy that?
An: Yeah 
LM: What about you?
J: Urm (6.0)
LM: Do you like games?
J: (...) urm
Al: (...)
J: Pardon
(...)
An: Sometimes I do stories on Microsoft Word
LM: Um hm
(15.0)
LM: Have you used computers at school?
J: Yes
LM: And what have you done on them
J: We’ve done (...) where you have to erm, there’s a little frog who does the sums, sits, click on the sums and it’s a grid with lots of sums in and on level one you do things that equal, so you click on sum that (...) and a frog will come along and eat it and munches it, and (...) they eat you (...)
(5.0)
M: An uses paint as well
LM: Right
Al: Um and also (...)
An: yeah (...)
LM You can make the whole car
An: Yeah, yeah
M: And you worked out how to fold it and you get the (...)
LM: And have either of you used Internet access?
(8.0)
An: I love going on the Internet (2.0) Don’t go very often, though
M: Why’s that?
An: Costs too much money
M: Well, you can’t (...)
Al: (...)
LM: Can I ask both of you about your computing (...)
M: Of course
Al: Well, I use it at work urm, and I’m compiling a data base, accessing information...
(sound of fizzy drinks being poured obscures much of A’s answer)
...I’m trying to do myself 
LM: What do you do?
Al: I’m trying to do my own faxes now, but they’re a bit basic and I always feel that having a lack of knowledge of computer raphics, it isn’t the way to do it, and I’ve been on a couple of courses to learn Excel and Word, 
LM: Right
Al: And I haven’t used  it yet, partly because the pressure of work is so great that it just doesn’t (...) and I have done an introduction to the Internet course all paid for by
the company that (...), sitting around using the Internet
LM: So in what sort of (...) did you get onto the Net and why?
Al: Because erm (2.0) because erm everybody now seems to be getting onto the net, and I think (...) we can access biographies of musicians from the Internet for agencies, that’s quite useful and er we can, we have a currency converter on the Internet where we can, say, if you want to find how much a thousand francs will cost in pounds, it’ll do that (...) erm, (...) that was very important, again it’s very rarely that I use the computer at home, (2.0) 
LM: And what sort of stuff do you use it for at home?
Al: I tend to use it for work related things, other than that not really, I mean I could do, I could actually work from home very easily (...) but at the moment I use it for my own personal stuff and group and the pressure group I’m involved in (...) finding out how to make (...) it’s all fairly basic knowledge, and for something to go wrong (...) M, it seems like your computer, and he knows how it works, and helps a lot erm, and at work of course I don’t need to know basic (...) erm,...
LM: Right
(5.0)
M: What’s that you’re 
[laughs]
M: Urm, right my use of the computer,  well, I’m self employed so I’m working from home, erm so I use the computer every day, mainly word processing, erm I couldn’t really get on without it (...) erm and (2.0) I also use the facility it has for playing CD’s because it’s er (...) and it’s also got the answerphone and fax facilities on on the modem I don’t use the modem much but I do use the fax from time to time, and the answerphone and I use it for, I use games sometimes aswell Internet, I go on, I use e-mail erm and I use it for leisure interests aswell, I look at the sites there are are useful for music and sometimes I use it for research for information
LM: So what sort of sites do you use for research?
M: Well, it depends, I mean I’m writing stuff about erm erm ethical issues, and I was a bit stuck on soft drugs so I looked up what there was and there was information on the subject, erm (2.0) erm, something else I’ve got to do shortly is erm to do advertising, for a (...) as  a site and what they’ve got there is definitely useful for me, erm, I also as a researcher like to be able to access library so I can find out what’s in stock before going there
LM: So sort of like a catalogue on-line
M: Yes, well on the Internet you can get into the British Library Catalogue, urm and any University Library Catalogue, and the one, the ones I use round here I can check out whether the book’s there or (...), it’s extremely useful
LM: Yep, 
Al: What about (...)
M: I mentioned that 
Al: Sorry, yep, I forgot to mention I use e-mail at work all the time and in fact it’s probably almost replaced erm, erm (...), in fact internal e-mails are used more than internal mail
LM: It’s very much the same at UCL
Al: (...)
LM: Right, yeah, I’m quite interested (5.5) Do you think it’s taken up much, erm taken away much work or does it just erm, replace
Al: Erm, (...) well I do jobshare and the er, we haven’t quite got a shared e-mail box that’ll work very well so it’s just copied to me so when I haven’t been in in two days or three days, when I come in, getting a message, I get like thirty e-mails, so er, it’s a bit of a (...) I suppose it will (...) we have kind of  (...) coming through but, (...)
and financial... 
(2.0)
Al: Sometimes we get (...)
LM: Mmm, OK So have any of you heard about urm, shopping on the Internet
Al: Yes 
M: Umm hmm (laughs)
LM: So what do you know about that?
M: We’ve used it
LM: Oh right
Al: (...) that’s because of Dominic
M: Not regularly though I suppose it comes round once a month,
Al: We use it when we are (...) so we can’t take the car for the shopping we use it then, but actually  we haven’t used (3.0) actually we’ve used the catalogue rather than rather than, I did actually get onto the Internet last time after that course
M: We eventually got a CD-ROM from them as well so we’ve got
Al: yeah
M: So that’s now, we’ve only done one shop, haven’t we, since the er since we got the CD 
LM: What was the catalogue?
Al: A printed catalogue that has all the products in the catalgoue with the number and you just quote the number and when I (1.0) when I
LM: Is this still via e-,mail?
Al: (...) But the thing with the CD-ROM pack I logged in, you know I logged in or was there (...)
J: Yeah
Al: was there any danger of (...)
An: No you just went into it
Al: But that doesn’t work, something’s dropped out there
M: Well it took us about three months and since...
Al: Varying (...) whether, or... I haven’t actually ordered anything since,  (4.0) (...) when it was work now, (...) try and do it
LM: So you have done an order on-line?
Al: Erm, yes there was a problem in that
M: Even with the CD-ROM you had to phone it through didn’t you?
Al: I couldn’t get the catalogue numbers, it was easier for me to look at my previous list and take for example the chocolate, number 44 if you ordered the same stuff frequently, but I think I’m going to try it next time because (...) (2.0)  I think (...)
M: I have bought books over, I’ve used Amazon over the er er the Internet erm, I’ve got CD from them as well and I found, I found that very useful Large, largely because the books that I wanted where only available in America, so it made it worth doing because they reduced the price as you know, it was very cheap
LM: Was that with bulk order?
M: Yes, I’ve done it twice 
LM: Where you happy with that? Did it take long?
M: Yes, very happy The books took about three weeks I think but er urm I they’re quite clear about how long you’re going to have to wait, so that’s fine, and if I’d wanted them quicker I could pay more
LM OK (3.0) OK so did either of you two see these shopping (...) 
An: Yeah
Al: You helped me didn’t you?
An: Yeah, I think, I think I’ve looked at the Amazon as well 
M: With me once did you?
An: Yeah I think I looked at erm er (2.0) (...)
M: But that’s not shopping It could be because they’re linked to sites that sell stuff, 
(2.0)
Al: We don’t really let An loose on shopping (laughs) running up huge bills and htings
[laughs]
M: yeah but he’s got no credit card number
(8.0)
LM: So what sort of stuff have you heard about, about erm shopping on the Internet and other media, or have you? I mean is there something you’ve discovered for yourself or...?
(2.0)
Al: I’ve not heard much else, but I mean I’ve heard of it but I (1.5) urm, I’m actually not aware of any other supermarket doing it at the moment they probably are but, er, erm I haven’t been able to look into it at the moment (4.0) There is a slight, I find a slight disadvantage in (...) can’t see, can’t handle the products, so for food you can’t handle the products I thought the CD-ROM would erm get like kind of 3-D effects that would go through the erm (2.0) aisles, but I don’t think you do get that
LM: No
Al: I think that’s something I read about that I thought would happen but that was (...) there’s (...)
LM: Yeah I’ve got the laptop here so I thought we could have a little look at some sites that you like looking at
M: OK
LM: There’s a modem, would it be OK to use that?
M: Erm, yes, the which of the 
Al: What about the
M: Um, we’ve got three in the house, you just need a phone connection don’t you
LM: Yes
M: It has to be for a digital phone doesn’t it?
LM: No
M: No, no OK, it’s an old phone in one room and 
Al: With a normal BT line
M: I don’t mean a digital line, but you dial with a, that way, is that right?
J: There’s one in this room
Al: No, let’s go in the front room then
J: There’s one in this room that doesn’t work anymore
M: We haven’t got a phone line in here
J: I know
(Background noise)
M: Shall we go to... I’ll carry that for you 
LM: OK
(...)
(15)
M: Do you want to plug it in to the mains?
LM: No, hopefully it erm
(Background noise)
LM: Do you have an older machine?
M: Yes, I’ve got an old Amstrad 286
An: I have that
M: Which An uses 
LM: Right
M: (4.0) and a pen computer, go and get it and we’ll show her what we’ve got
(10.0) (Background, Windows operation Chime)
M:(...) the smallness of the screen
LM: urm yeah,it’s not too bad compared to other lap-tops I’ve seen, but yeah
(25.0)
LM: (...)
M: yes, it is
LM: OK.
(10.0)
M: The idea of those is you could walk about and it’ll er...
(...)
M: It’s not that old 5,6 years or something 
An: (...)
M: What did you say An? Well it was, very briefly
An: (...)
M: No, the plug behind, yeah, that’s right, just over there
(20.0)
Al: An, mind the light
An: Yeah OK
Al: I did warn you about (...)
J: (...) Look
M: Sit there, get your feet up OK Oh, I’ve forgotten how it works now 
An: (...)
(5.0)
LM: When did you get this?
M: well the BBC had them for erm, er, yes and thought it was a wonderful new idea
An: When was that, Dad?
M: When I was working at the research library, and all we could, this was a time when the managers were erm selling off the systems
An: Daddy, systems (...) is dead
M: Oh well
Al: Oh dear
(5.0)
M: Urm and so these were got, but they didn’t do the job, what they were supposed to and so I think they got abandoned
LM: How long was that
M: ooh, about six months, maybe a year I think
LM: So what do you use it for?
An: Me, I (...)
M: Yeah
An: I use it for work
Al: So why does it not work
M: The idea was that we could, yes that it was to slow and everything takes ages to download so we shifted everything from there onto there er, and the idea is that it’s supposed to recognise your handwriting
LM: OK, right
M: with the pen, but it did that fairly poorly 
LM: Yeah
An: (...)
M: And to get round that you could get a virtual keyboard on there er, but it was so slow even with that that it’s just picking out the letters on the keyboard erm,
yes 
LM:(...)
(...)
M: Is that all you’ve got on there now? I thought you had more
An: Yeah
M: Oh, I think the memory’s full up 
(2.0)
An: (...)
J: (...)
M: Right is that the keyboard there?
J: Yeah (4.5) (...)
M: Can you bring up things like the calender?
(2.0)
An: That’s says 1998 still sorry, 1988 
M: (...) show us that, what is it? Well you could put in, you could put your erm, your days in
(...)
An: There’s only one line
M: Yeah,we’ve got one line
Al: Oh, right (2.0) OK
J: Yeah
Al: Do you want a (...)
M: Shall we get on with this, then?
An: Yeah
(...)
(...)
(45.0)
(Background noise, keyboard tapping)
LM: (...)
Al: Yeah
(20.0)
An: Can we look at this one
M: Urm?
(...)
An: Yay!
PC: Welcome to CompuServe
(5.0)
(...)
M: We’ve got to log in
J: (...) picture
Al: J stop that
(23.0)
Al: What about the looking at the Internet?
LM: Is this a bad time to do it?
M: It’s still fairly early 
Al: It’s just six isn’t it
LM: Mmm
(...)
(8.0)
PC: You have new mail waiting
(10.0)
M: Is it his? This one?
LM: I expect it belongs to the project
M: Right
An: (...)
M: Is it? And it recognises it?
An: Yeah
Al: Oh, well better get that on (...) Fridays just for over the weekend
[laughs]
M: Ahhh
(5.5)
LM: Right, OK (4.0) (...)
Al: (...)
M: Yes, I know that I’ve got it, and I’ve finished that one
Al: Urm What about in general? 
(...)
(...)
Al: (...)
[laughs]
Al: Here we all are
LM:  Funnily enough they haven’t given me that much
M: I think a crate of wine would be appropriate
An: OK
Al : That’s just saying whether you can
An: Put that there?
Al: We have the (...)
LM: This is the actual website where we’ve got the CD, shall we look at that?
An: Press OK?
(5.0)
(...)
M: Stick your head there (...)
(3.5)
Al: Oh, I see you’ve got to put your name in here, yeah
(...)
An: (...)
(5.0)
LM: If I you’d like to (...)
Al: Right
(...)
Al: (...)
M: Yeah (4.0) One thing I could point out what’s available, get the um, get the number,the serial number then I could order it very quickly
(2.0)
J: Look (2.0) (...)
M: Yeah, play what? (...)
J: No
(5.0)
(Music)
Al; What’s that 
M: It’s (?)
(...)
M: That’s fine
(5.0)
LM: Have you bought anything?
M: Not off CD, no, no, the only CD I bought was through Amazon, they, I don’t know if CD Now do reductions lie Amazon did, which made it worth getting from Central America
Al: They are cheaper than... stores
M: Yeah On CD Now yeah (2.0) and eventually stores are cheaper than British prices
Al:(...) the cost... 
LM: You’ve got quite a lot more on the urm (...) ones
(15.0)
(...)
LM: Click on that box
(...)
M: That’s right (...)
Al: No
J: Have you urm...
(...)
Al: Yeah
(4.0)
PC: Leaving Compuserve
M: Leaving Compuserve
J: (laughs)
M: Did you get that paper today
J: No
M: Oh
J: (Burbles)
Al: Do you want to play with this
J: Yeah
M: Me?
Al: Do you want to look at the Tesco’s disc
(...)
LM: Boot this up
M: Right
(10.0)
M: Urm not clear (...) Oh yes, sorry (6.5) Right
LM: (...) they have preliminary categorisation there
M: So if we move this down
LM: You drag it
M: How do you drag it?
LM: Click with the left hand one then bring it down
M: Oh, yeah 
(...)
M: Can you imagine gran on this?
J: Hehehe, no
(3.0)
M: it’d be wine, wine, wine, wine, the French, Bordeaux
J: (...)
M: OK, right
(...)
M: Fine, OK a bottle of Chateau Neuf will do fine
Al: (...) 
An: (...)
M: I don’t know Go on then press it, 
Al: (...) 
M: Yes, right, fine, J, you press that (...)
(7.5)
Al: (...) 
M: J, stop it please, (6.0) Right
LM: (...)
M: Right, yes
Al: That’s what we’ve got, yeah, you see she doesn’t get a cod because I haven’t got my login number I then do it by hone and I have to quote a code, do that erm  the next time we do it we’ll have to make sure we are, we get the information, perhaps if we do it on line perhaps we could (...)  
M:  Someone else (...) 
LM: (...) control where’s that?
M: Oh we ordered a bottle and there’s already a bottle on there(...)
Al: There’s actually more, there’s certainly more here than in the catalogue, the catalogue hasn’t been updated 
and they keep sending me the new catalogue so it’s actually better to go on line apart from the wine choice
LM: And you have actually erm 
M:  They do brioche loads as well, try one of those
Al: Sorry
LM: You can actually update every month from the website
Al, Urm, right, products and prices
M: Yeah
Al: (...)
M: What, onto the CD-ROM?
(2.0)
LM: That’s the impression P gives me but I’m not sure
M: But they’re read only memory you can’t wrote on it, the CD-ROM
Al: But once it’s installed, assuming you must be able to (...), you can certainly update on the Internet, can’t you
J: (...)
LM: I guess you can pull it down, and install that information and just sort of...
M: Yeah 
(...)
(...)
Al: Watch this
J: (...) out of one
(9.5)
M: This what you’re doing in your lunch hour is it? 
(...)
LM: What do you think of that, then?
M: Of?
LM: Well the er the (...)
M: It’s very useful, yes, it depends, I mean erm (5.5) if we don’t have time to go shopping then it’s worth doing
Al: But the other reason we wanted to use it is it saves going to the car and we could just use the computer and (...) but er, that’s one reason
(background noise, 15.0)
LM: One other thing we’re trying to figure out really, is urm, whether people think Internet commerce’ll take off in a big way
An: Dad look!
M: It’s difficult to judge really because here, I mean here in London, mind out, here in London we’ve got access to all the erm alternatives, 
Al: Everything is so close, I remember talking to those people in the bed and breakfast on the Isle of (...) in the Outer Hebrides and he thought that (...) he didn’t know about (...) shopping he thought that was just fantastic, they’ve got no access to anything like it so I think the people in the far flung areas, erm, (2.0) when they’re on the Internet will be, it’ll be invaluable to them, but as you here, everything so easy, so close that...
M: Don’t you always like to look at a book inside before you actually buy it you can actually
An:(...)
M: And you wouldn’t be able to see what’s in it over the Internet before you bought it would you?
Al: It won’t be long before you’re able to, er  access a book over the Internet without er...
LM: One of the things (...)
Al: (...) that would mean more kind of or how it feels
M: (...) say they have reviews as well 
LM: Do you look at those
M: Yeah, yes
(...)
M: Well erm, there are many favourable reviews in the (...) about a week after I got it (laughs) but I have this book I need that I’ve wanted to look at anyway that was...
J:(...)
(15.0)
An: I’ve got (...) that they nicked from us
LM: And do you think there’re going to be any kind of (...)
M: About shopping?
LM: Urm
M: Ur, (4.5) What would need to be regulated?
LM: Well (...) tax, 
M: Is there? Yes, yes, I think it would be very nice if it become a problem with the amount of books being imported (laughs), created a problem for Customs and Excise 
(8.5)
LM: (...)
An: (...) I know that... look
(Background noise, typing, scrapes)

(End of side one)

Al: An explosion 
M: Come on, Jess, on you go (3.0) What do you want to look at? 
J: (...) 
(15.5)
Al: What’s this? (6.0) Oh it yours, right
(...)
(11.0)
Al: What do you do?
LM: And who gets (...)
Al: Right
LM: (...)
Al: (...) workshop
(2.0)
LM: Out of bounds
Al: Is it very difficult? (...) the matches
(14.5)
M: She ask if she could have one of them? 
Al: No
M: She should have done...
(3.0)
J: (...)
Al: That’s about it
M: Right
Al: Really
M: I hope you got some useful stuff
LM: Yeah, it’s interesting thinking about the fact that in London you’ve got so many things near you that you can use like shopping and the ways (...) and the stuff about food shopping 
M: Yes
LM: where people are as likely to have their own transport 
M: You see even without, even not having the car, I can do the main grocery shopping in an hour, so that makes it still worth doing
LM: You can just bring back a week’s shopping
M: Yeah, by bicycle
LM: Really?
M: Yeah, well I go, it’s a question of geography comes into this, the, ur, I go to Muswell Hill which is just up the road but coming down is quite a steep descent so the fact is it’s no effort to bring the shopping back
[laughs]
(...)
M: So we tend to use Tesco’s when I’m working at the end of the week so I can’t go 
LM: Right
M: And then as A said, we use them for larger things 
Al: (...)
J: (...)
M: I think one point worth mentioning is we tend to spend more, spend more money, if we’re buying through, buying from Tesco’s delivery than if I’m going there in person, I mean there’s a limitation on what I can carry
and ur, (2.0) the fact that we do it er at Tesco’s say once every month, every two months then you know stock up with wine or...
LM: Yeah, so do you tend to do shopping on your own?
M: Yeah
LM: So you don’t go out together
M: Oh no, oh no no no (laughs) No, no I think shopping should always be done on one’s own
LM: Right
M: Even when we’re on holiday, I’ll er one of us’ll go off and do the shopping seperately, er there’s no point dragging children around supermarkets, do you want to be dragged round supermarkets?
An: Nope
M: Nope, fine, the idea is it’s more efficient 
(3.0)
Al: (...)
M: Well, if we were both working full time, then I think we would be using it more often (3.5) but I see it as I can work from home I can go and, well typically I’ll go on a Friday morning , drop the children off at school and then go and do it, so it’s done in an hour... (6.0) saves wasting time
LM: What abotu when you do other kinds of shopping? 
M: Yes, well I’m quite often in town, and actually from here on the bicycle it’s only half an hour... yes, so er erm that’s much easier and there is also the actual pleasure of browsing (2.0) in a book shop say or in a record shop, which is quite different from browsing on the Net
LM: Yeah, I was just wondering (...)
M: How do you mean?
LM: Sort of the (...) when you go clothes shopping
M: Urrm Clothes shopping I do very rarely We don’t go shopping together unless it’s for a specific purpose, urm, no, something we’ve got to get and they happen to be around but, erm shopping is not considered a family activity, (laughs)
LM: So when you go shopping (...)
M: Yeah, 
(...)
(...)
Al: I like to (...) I don’t really, I just do it when I have to do it, food shopping I do, now, I do that at weekends (...) um, I never go out shopping, deliberately shopping for, clothes, that’s as and when... (2.5) urm it’s a lot easier like that rather than (...) I have to (...) If I’ve got the money I can find lots of things to spend it on I do (...) 
J:  I’m helping her
Al: When I’m at work, at lunch time... 
LM: Right, thank you very much
M: Thank you
Al: Thank you



Ut7

ut7 21/10/98 C2DE, family with teenage children

PL: Right, well can we start by just saying who we are? I’m Pete.
J: I’m J
PL: Right
R: I’m R
A: A
E: E
V: ... V
PL: Alright, well what we’re talking to people about is, er, the Internet. Computing and the Internet. So.. can I just ask you what you know about and think about the Internet?
J: What I know of it is... I’ve only used it a couple of time, what I know of it, just, basically a vast library of information,
PL: right
J: that’s just anything from all over the world and erm its a good service
PL: where have you used it
J: erm.. I’ve used it, I’ve used it a couple of times in school,
PL: right
J: mainly. erm just generally information purposes.
PL yeah right. What was it..
J: erm finding information out about the channel tunnel, the eurorail link, erm, did a bit of browsing
PL: right
J: had a look at different websites. just that sort of thing.
PL yeah...we don’t have to go in order
E: I have to
R: I’ve heard about the Internet, erm... 
PL: yeah go on
R: there is access to various things and some of them erm shouldn’t be allowed, as far as I’m concerned
PL: why?
R: Like if you get a certain age group using the Internet and they sort of , you hear many things in the paper of how children of various ages have come across something on the Internet where they’ve learned to make bombs or whatever the case may be
PL: right
R: erm.. yeah there’s things that should be only allowed to various people.
PL: right
R: like professionals, like those in some professions that need access to various things.
PL: but in fact anyone can get anything
R: well yes. almost anyone can get into it if they want to get into it. But I disagree with... like I think there should be restrictions on the age limit.
PL: OK. anything else?
A: Erm, I’ll go next. Erm the Internet. I sort of think of it, I don’t know if I get muddled with email or Internet, I don’t know if I’m very clear, erm. I think of the expense when anyone says they’ve got the Internet, I think oh my gosh I wonder what their phone bill is.
PL: yeah.
A: the lad net door’s had it for just over a year now and if any of these would have it I would sort of check with L how expensive it is because I know that when we’re at work somebody will be on there all the time. And if its sort of thing like ringing any number in the world are we paying like a long distance ‘phone call.
PL: right
A: The money aspect would worry me a lot
PL: right. yep, OK.
E: I’ve just browsed on it, just er, looking up various things. Like I looked at things for the Playstation on it and I’ve just looked up computer things.. for.. like the Playstation. And.. well it’s very good. I’ve found it very good. It gives you information about forthcoming games and its great
PL: yeah. And where did you do that?  Was that at the school,
E: At the school, yeah
PL: Is that part of IT at school?
E: yeah,
J: yeah, you can do it separately as well
PL: right
J: yeah
PL: and have they got one like in the library you can...
J: erm, I dunno. At the start, they only had a few modems. Now they don’t have any modems in the school cos if they did we’d probably be using them all the time
PL: yeah
J: but it was a very good service
A: D’y ‘ave it in school val?
V: yeah. all what we look at is the pop bits, the gossip
PL: right
V: who’s going out with who... and...what’s going to happen on tv, because other countries are  ahead of us. 
PL: that’s right, so you can check out what’s coming
A: ah, so that’s how she tells me what’s going to happen in Coronation Street and Eastenders and all that. But she doesn’t tell me she gets it from the Internet
PL: is that the school as well?
A: Well, er,  yeah, and sometimes at the library
PL: right. So you can go in there.  What is that a local library?
A: yes
PL: And what about shopping on the net have you heard about that?
R: erm yes I’ve heard bits and pieces, I’ve heard people talking about it. cos I know they do bike sales and you can sell your car through it
PL: right
J: and I know that quite a few people I know have been talking about you can now do your home shopping over the Internet.
PL: yeah
 J: you just pick out what you want and pay over the net and they send it to your house. so . yeah I think its a  great idea. As long as you don’t want to walk round the shop and browse.
A: that’s it. I’ve heard about shopping on the Internet
PL: right
A: but I actually like to be there. There’s nothing like a good old shop, you’ve got to be in there and look for the bargains and things. I just couldn’t buy a thing. I never go shopping to buy a thing and come home with it
PL: yeah, right, so that’s a disadvantage not getting the offers
A: If its something, say like a lawn mower or something ordinary. Yes I would buy it over the Internet I could work it out or X could do it with me. For say a piece of furniture. But for sort of clothes or food shopping you’ve got to be there and have a look or presents, or.
PL: right
A: We watch QVC on the television sometimes. That the same sort of idea?
PL: well, it’s related to it. What do you think of QVC?
A: I’ve nearly bought something once (general laughter). You were in bed one night I saw some pens that you could do all different kinds of writing with.
PL: Right
A: this was last year and I said to you we could buy it as a stocking filler for X. But that add the postage on to the cost of the product and they had in on a special offer but by the time you added the introductory they call it don’t they. And by the time you’ve added the postage to the cost its not really any extra or less, its .. so I thought ooh I dunno.. so I didn’t.
R: So by the time you work it all out, I mean most of the shops sell this stuff anyway
PL: right
R: so therefore you may get it cheaper in the shops than what you would on tv or the Internet. by the time you’ve paid the post
PL: right
A: that’s the drawback with the QVC, the postage and packin.
PL: most of the Internet stuff has to be delivered
A: but if they hid it away in the cost and they didn’t tell me I was paying postage. It’s like saying ‘come and buy this from us but where gonna put the post on.. if they hid it away
PL: yeah right
A: and I didn’t actually feel I was paying it. Although like they say, there’s never a free carrier bag. If you’re getting a free carrier bag in Marks and you go somewhere else they charge you 5p for it... oooh. Well I know we all pay somehow but if they hide it away I’d find it a bit more..
PL: but they don’t tend to do that do they? They tell you what the cost is and add it on.
A: yeah and its always pounds, its not pennies. 2, 3 pounds sometimes postage and packing.
PL: What about shopping from abroad the Internet?
J: you can buy it all on the there. you can buy... a suit direct from Japan. You can buy anything from over there. Its a good idea if you don’t see anything you want in England
A: Say it arrived and there was a split in your stuffing. You think of all the performance to take it back to japan.
J: Yeah but if you can’t find anything you like in England you just go on to the net. surf around find out what you want. I think shopping on the Internet is a very good idea
A: Listen to our expert. I can hear him  ‘surfing on the net
J: I just love the net. It’s a great concept
R: If I can’t buy it in a shop then I won’t buy it at all.
PL: right
R: because, you know, there’s too many scams going on. yeah you may see this thing on the Internet, it arrives at the doorstep and its faulty or something so you’ve got the performance of sending it back and waiting for them to send a new one
PL: yeah
R: Or you cancel your order. It’s the same as like your catalogues or anything like that.
PL: um
R: It’s the same principle. But your doing it over the Internet and your paying over the internet. Same as QVC or a catalogue for Littlewoods or whatever the case may be, Grattons. You know if it arrives damaged you’ve got to send it back, you’ve got to have the performance of posting it back and then like waiting for the replacement. So its got its advantages got its disadvantages I suppose.
PL: yeah What do you think people mainly buy on the Internet?
R: Not being no computer freak I mean I wouldn’t know.
J: Whatever you want people can buy it cos it caters for different tastes and I dunno, household goods, furniture, that sort of thing cos its the sort of thing everyone wants and if you are surfing anyway and you see it why not buy it there direct?
PL: yeah. Alright then, now I’ve got a computer over there so we’re going to have a go although you guys have already done it...

computer set up

PL: right. Who’s going to do it then? You can start, we’ll rope the others in in a minute.
J: you pay for the time on the Internet
A: what do you do?
J: surf
Ed: you just surf
Je What does that mean? Ed: You just look about
J: Look around it
Vi: go through everything
A: yeah but if I got involved in something would we have time?
J: so that’s a good money spinner

Computer powers up

PL: Alright. Well we’re going to connect to UCL. Just switch that off before we start. Where is it? There it is. What I’m doing is I’m logging onto a computer where I work and that’s going to be the computer that connects us to the Internet.
Ed: So its a computer for Christmas definitely then eh?
A: This is what G has got next door Internet R
R: yeah but he hasn’t got a laptop.
A: well you can’t have everything.

PL: right, it’s trying to dial... up UCL now. Come on. Yeah, OK, so now its checking that I’ve got a valid account and my password is correct. So now we’ve logged on to the computer at UCL. Hello cat. What I’m doing now is this is a programme that helps, allows us to connect to the Internet. So we’re connected to the computer and now there’s another programme to connect us to the Internet. Here it is ‘Netscape’. Right, there we go. So this is it, where now connected to the Internet.
A: Is that it, is that all it is?
PL: Well this is like the gate. you know we’ve not started. This programme that’s covering the screen now is a browser that allows us to go anywhere we like.
A: So if you spotted something you’re interested in what do you do just double click onto..
PL: er yeah. The thing is]
R: So out of the list there, you just like put the arrow to where ever you want to go
PL: Go on try it. Its a bit sensitive, but this is the thing you move the arrow with and when it gets a hand, those are things you can go to. So.. you just click there...have a go
R: Press --what this one here
PL: Yeah, that’s it ? I mean, how advanced does a computer have to be?
PL: Well most computers  well, it depends. Most of the computers that they’re now selling will do the Internet as well.
Re: So it wouldn’t have to be a really expensive one 
PL: This has got Solitaire on it.
Ch: Oh! I love Solitaire.
PL: Go on then, have a go.
Ch: AAAH! My favourite.
Re: You do know how to play it then C?
PL: No, most of them do the Internet now - that’s one of the things they’re setting them up to do. No, go on you just play, are you’re going to change the deck 
(PING!)
Re: Oh, what was that?
PL: It’s alright, it’s just my tape.
Re: Oh, it’s the tape. So what happens in the year 2000?
Ch: That bug...
Re: They’re talking about all these computers going mad 
PL: The dreaded bug? I don’t know I think that may have been 
Re: Exaggerated?
PL: Yeah, I don’t think it will it affect home computers. Companies that have got lots of records that depend upon dates and things...
Ch: Ten 
Re: Do you know how to play it C?
Ch: Yeah.
Re: You missed a 2.
PL: So who do you think’s using this - cos you saw there were lots of shops on there. Who do you think’s using it already?
Ch: 3, 4 
Re: Say a lot of households 
PL: Right.

END OF SIDE ONE

PL: Some things that will happen is that, some things that you get indirectly like through a travel agent for example, you’ll be able to book directly to the airline...
Re: Would that save you money, it might do mightn’t it?
PL: Yeah, that might save money. And there’s some advantages like that. And the books, instead of having a book shop companies can just have a warehouse 
Ch: look for a 2 of any colour...
PL:   that’s cheap - so you can get cheaper prices that way. And the other thing that it can do is it provides a lot more services around  about information about the products, cos it’s like all this information on the Web so they can tell you a lot about the products, so you can find out  So you’ve played this before on here?
Ch: Yeah. At my friend’s house.
PL: Right.
Re: Who’s? C, N 
Ch: Michael’s.
Re: Oh, Michael, I didn’t know they had a computer. When did they get that?
Ch: Oh, ages ago.
PL: Alright, my time is up.
Re: It’s 8 o’clock.
PL: Is it?

Ut22

ut22 ABC1 Cohabs 18-35   Low IT  2.2.99

M - Male interviewee
F -  Female interviewee
I - Interviewer



I:	Okay, so, um, how much did the recruiter tell you about what I want to talk about?  Anything?

M:	... little, ... other than that

F:	Market research

I:	Okay, cos I’m not really a market researcher, I work at London University and we’re doing a project on computers and the Internet ... computers and things ... so if we can start by sort of finding out what you do, you know,  what your background is.  

F:	I mean, I use computers for work but ... we’ve got no internet, no email ... just got Microsoft ...and a dictionary ... 

I:	So what do you do?

F:	I’m a registrar for deputy managers (?) 

I:	So has it got sort of customer assistance?

F:	customers, that as well, ... that is

I:	And did you use computers at school, when did you first?

F:	No, computers, not at school, the first time was really when I got my first job, a job that was ..., ...

M:	And we’ve got an in-house system at work which ...

I:	So what have you guys heard about the internet and email?

F:	Well my friend has got it, and sometimes when we go round there sometimes they’ll show us it won’t they, the Internet and all that

F2:	Well, you know, it’s so great that

F:	Really?  The email sounds good, at work everybody ... 

M:	We get ... this year, and they looked up the

F:	a travel section

M:	sort of details on where we’re going and routes and that sort of stuff

F:	Did a map of how to get there

I:	Oh right

F:	And also they’d just had a baby hadn’t they and they were actually going to, they got the picture on the screen and they’d got all..., and it was all relaxed

F2:	I think ... was a real computer boff and she wanted to do this for them, and she said look, look at this, and now she’s got into computers as well ... and they were sharing a flat as well

M:	...Simpsons characters as well, just general ... if they find something on there they’ll show us ... I’ve got no idea.

I:	Okay, what sort of stuff do you, ... about the Internet or ...

F:	Everything’s got these Internet numbers haven’t they, uk dot thingy numbers that are everywhere, so everybody seems to have them ... I imagine it’s more information or something

muttered conversation - can’t make out words

I:	Have either of you heard anything about shopping on the Internet?

F:	Yeah

M:	Yeah

F:	At Sainsbury’s

I	Right, yeah?

F:	That’s what they were thinking of doing wasn’t it, they were going to do it on the Internet, they haven’t... but yeah, yeah I have

I:	...

M:	I’ve looked at, um, designers, Ted Baker, whatever they had on for it, ..., shows without actually going to the shop you can actually go and look and order ...

I:	Yeah.  Does that appeal?

M:	Umm, yes and no, I mean, the pictures were not exactly, well, they were clear but I’d still prefer to actually go and see it and see what some of the colours were.  It told you what the colours were at the bottom when you looked at the picture, they all looked slightly grey, whatever colour they said they were they always looked slightly grey, so I think it’s a bit hit and miss that way, but yeah, if you ...

F:	... (too quiet)... it’s a male thing, you know, books or something it doesn’t matter what it looks like, you know, ...

I:	Yeah.  Do you buy anything by mail order at the moment?

F:	Just a bit!  Clothes, clothes clothes,

M:	Sports equipment, that sort of stuff

F:	Just got used to ordering things from magazines or ...

I:	Well maybe, is it okay if I plug the computer in to the phone

M&F:	Yeah, yeah

I:	sort of get on with that and show you some, cos what we’re really interested in is shopping online and we’re trying to see what people think of the ones

pause and fixing up computer

I:	So is Sainsbury’s running a sort of home delivery service round here?

F:	Don’t know

M:	No, I thought it was Tesco’s that were doing it.  I’ve just heard , it was Vicki and Catherine that were talking about

...

F:	I know Sainsbury’s are, I’ve heard about before

I:	I know they’re both, competitors

F:	If one’s doing it, the other’s going to do it

I:	Exactly, yeah

pause (computer boots up)

I:	So Netscape is the browser, the basically the window that provides it all, and that’s the kind of homepage, which is the page of the department of Psychology which is where I work, that’s why it automatically   pause.  Okay, so the bookmarks are a lot of the websites that I want to show you so we’ll start off with you having a look at the stuff on there

M:	Got any games on it?

laughter

I:	Yes but they’re kind of boring ones though, things like, you know, Solitaire and things

M:	oh, right!

I:	It’s basically these ones down there and there.  CD Now’s a CD, videos, that’s American, that’s quite a good site, and there’s Waterstones, Boots, Loot, that’s not really shopping but that’s Loot on-line, Argos

F:	A homepage!  (laughs)

I:	And so on and so on, actual records of a million ... and a record shop but it’s British.  Berkley Square’s up in York (?), lots of different shops like Toys R Us, ... Amazon is an American bookstore, it’s a competitor of Waterstones, they’ve now got a British site.  Not all of these are ones you can actually buy from, like you can’t necessarily send them your credit card number whatever, a lot of them it’s just information, but a lot of them you can, like, well, you’ll see.  And then - oh is it okay, are you used to using these?

F:	Mice..

F2:	No, not like that, my mouse is on a 

I:	It’s just like that really, where you move that around, like the cursor, and then you click there

F:	What do you reckon?

F2:	This box you just tick(?)

pause

I:	Okay, so that plays it back now, basically anything that’s underlined usually is a link to more information

F:	Okay

I:	and then you need to click on it, you’ll see a little hand come up, it means you can click on it

F:	Okay

...

I:	you can scroll up and down like you would on a normal Word document, move it up or down a page and then do ... switch to different

conversation too quiet

F:	Can I still click on it now or is it too late

I:	Well as long as you can still see it you can click on it basically

F:	oh right

pause

I:	A lot of the goods information here would be for people who don’t shop at ...

F:	If I want to get out of that would that automatically

I:	Well you either go back, use this back button page just go through a frame at a time with different things you’ve clicked on or if you want to like look at a different site then just click on Bookmarks there

F:	... - would that be more interesting?

pause

I:	The Gap’s an interesting one because they’re not selling on-line over here just yet but they almost certainly will be, and like you were saying earlier about showing you what clothes there are

F:	Not seen that, I’ve not seen the clothes

F?:	Yeah, why don’t we?

F:	I like Baby Gap, that’s ...

M:	I went into the gallery (?)

pause

F:	...

I:	they even look a bit textured don’t they?

I:	Oh no that doesn’t look like a ... does it, it’s just like a catalogue where it shows you one colour and .  Yeah, no feel free to play round with that and see what would happen, nothing would happen if you kind of entered all your details.  Those kind of warning messages come up quite a lot

F:	Are you just going?  What, click on the colours that you want

I:	What did you click on just then to make it go

F:	Added it to the bag

M:	Yeah, well I went into where it said ‘order’ then I just pressed continue

I:	Okay, well let’s have a look at the shopping then and see if it’s in there.  Try again.  Go back

pause

I:	Maybe you have to fill these things in, go down, vehicle, click there (?), that.  Click under the word, click, yeah

I:	...

I:	So basically if you clicked on that you’d probably go back to the information page there, if you clicked on the loo and then update it’ll probably, you know, just, then show you another page where your shopping bag is empty, ... the checkout, that would be like ... what you’re going to pay for it.

pause

quiet conversation

I:	If you cancel it’ll just stop the page, it’ll stop the transfer if you, I don’t know why they come up at random, randomly.  Oh.  

pause

I:	It’s American

M:	...

quiet conversation

F:	There you go, boxes of Budweiser (?), how original!

I:	I was expecting something sort of really, mindboggling

F:	Yeah

M:	...

I:	Yeah, I mean if you knew that you’d seen it or get back to it or if you just

M:	If I press ... that’ll take me back to the bars

I:	Yeah

I:	Unfortunately John Lewis is one of the ones where you can’t actually buy online yet

F:	Oh right

I:	too bad as far as I’m concerned

I:	But again it’s got information about 

I:	Try the CD Now, that’s quite a good one

F:	Like this?

I:	Mmm-hmm.  Anything you’re looking for at the moment, or you’re about to buy, or 

F:	... random buyer

I:	You can search by like album title, song title, artist, 

pause

quiet conversation

I:	probably got a list ... specially tailored to what it knows are ...

F:	... does it actually do that

I:	I could do, I mean I’ve got a .  What this site does, I mean it’s quite a, compared to some of the British ones it’s got like lots of features and one of the things is this kind of personalised thing where they know, for example, that I’ve looked at certain things and when I’ve looked at them before, it’s like before I’ve kind of searched repeatedly for say, I don’t know, ... or whatever, I thought they’d be like free CDs but they know what they are (?) so they’ve got a sense for my tastes.  There we go.  Don’t ask me why they think ... is going to be something I really want to listen to! 

pause

I:	Wishlist, now wishlist is something, another thing where you can search for things and if you think, oh I’ll get that sometime, that looks really good, you can save it to your wishlists

F:	they recommend, oh right ...  so this is yours

I:	This is mine.  Try Wishlist cos that probably has got things on it, there, I’ve kind of added it.  You can go back to it at any time and if you think, oh I’m going to buy it now, you know, I’ve got some money to spend

F:	you get like, don’t you, as soon as you said oh what do you want I was like, er, can’t think of any music that I want.

I:	Yeah

I:	But you can see there, you’ve got like different options where

F:	Do I need to listen to check something

I:	Yeah, try it,  because if you see like I was saying things that are underlined you can look at, so that, if you click on that it’ll take you to the album, the page for the album.  you see here you’ve got an advert that’s going on that has been tailored to Bob Marley, so it’s probably an advert for the site itself but it’ll take you to another part of the site where there’s a special thing on the kind of history of black music (?)

F:	Ooh, what’s that

I:	If you click there it should give you the full list of the album’s listing
...

I:	That’s off this little bit of software which is sort of linked to the site.

music from computer

I:	Obviously it’s not very good quality because it’s just a mono speaker, but if you get a big machine ..

M:	Normally you hear a song don’t you, and you’re not sure if you want to buy the album on the strength of one song

F:	right, right, exactly so you can’t

I:	Usually half the tracks you can hear, maybe like 30 seconds

F:	If I want to get out of here how do I...back

I:	If you go back, if you want to look at something else, or if you want to search for something you want, whatever

F:	...

I:	Yeah, I don’t know what these are, these are the things that are provided by the company, you know, by Netscape, whereas these are things I’ve chosen, I mean you’re welcome to have a look.  Giving you a choice of - ooh Travelocity is a travel site where you can like buy tickets or look at deals

M:	... sports

F:	... sports.  Check the weather out.

I:	Is that what you’re doing in Norway?

F:	We are, that’s for the Millennium, in a couple of weeks we’re just going to Andorra skiing so

I:	Nice

F:	... resort ... can I put camera on

I:	I suppose so, but I don’t know if I’ve got the software to play it, I think you need little bits of software to play video clips, I’m not sure if we’ve got it, but try it by all means

M	Down, or, get back up, what.  ... snow

F:	Oh, right at the top, weather conditions.  We’re hoping to have snow!

I:	In Andorra?

F:	...

I:	Might be it’s an American site, you know, it’s possible

F:	Oh, newest resort towns, yeah ...

I:	There’s almost certainly an equivalent that either covers the whole world or is European.  This just comes pre-programmed with the package which is American.

F:	By region

I:	That looks American doesn’t it?

F:	Yeah

I:	Go forward

F:	Oh right, yeah

I:	I think Travelocity has got a British sort of arm, I don’t know if, that’s kind of like deals, like on Ceefax or something (?)

pause

...quiet conversation

F:	Now we’ve got to select a region, select a country.  Select. ‘Welcome to Andorra’.  ... 

M:	...

F:	No, that was a different thing altogether, don’t remember it anyway

M:	...

F:	...

F:	Yeah, I think that’s probably best

F:	Oh this is it

M:	Travel

I:	I think probably these are things that are, oh I don’t know actually, 

F:	...  Yeah, that’s an advert

F:	It’s an advert

I:	And often they load before anything else does for some reason, it’s just like this advert

F:	to catch you!

I:	Oh of course, it’s right in the Pyrenees isn’t it

F:	Yeah, supposed to be lovely

conversation about the Pyrenees

I:	So what do you think so far of those different sites?

F:	Really good.  Bit contagious, you could really spend a lot of time on this couldn’t you.  Things like this I think are more interesting like when you actually want to find out information, you’re not just like 

I:	What did you think of like the Gap, compared to, what was it, Ted Baker?

M:	That seemed to be a bit better, quicker, the colours were a lot more easy to sort of distinguish and, but that’s, I don’t think I’ll ever buy from it, it’ll probably just be if I was on there, just looking for looking’s sake really.

F:	Culture, oh no, activities.  Won’t be much culture, we’re going skiing and shopping

M:	Skiing shopping and drinking.

I:	Electronic.

I:	They’re going to clobber you on your flight back, like into Britain

F:	Probably load it

I:	Like coming back from France

M:	...

F:	Oooh, cobblestone streets

F:	Oh!

M:	What?

F:	I’m going there!  Natural Thermal Springs

M:	...

F:	Really?  A lagoon - ooh - and ...

I:	It’s February

F:	Yeah - hydro ..., I wonder if there’s a Turkish bath

I:	Sounds like something you ought to be doing

F:	I think we might  

too quiet

I:	Just have a look at, er, some of the other sites, and then I’ve got a Tesco thing to load on here, which isn’t like an Internet thing it’s like a package you get on a disk and you store it on your computer and you can have a look at the shopping, sort of grocery shopping thing, it’s a little bit different.  So Amazon is like an American on-line bookstore, it doesn’t, it’s not like, doesn’t have any real shops in the States, just an on-line business basically, like a warehouse somewhere in.  Look, it’s recognised me, I don’t know how it works

F:	They’ve got ya!

I:	Although actually they’ll know what I bought my Dad a ... book for Christmas

F:	You bought it from here?  Is is a lot cheaper then?

I:	It was, it was like 17 or 18 pounds in the shops and it was like 11.50

F:	Wow

M:	Can you put in topics and then it’ll sort of just

I:	Yeah, have a go

M:	...

laughter

F:	All those American books, like my Dad’s a country and western fan and I always have to send abroad for everything cos it’s just not in this country, and no books

I:	Oh right ...

F:	shall I put ...

I:	This is actually, talking about sort of shopping on the Internet, this is the sort of most successful Internet retailer at the moment

M:	Oh is it?

I:	Yeah

F:	How do you open this

I:	Just with a  left click there

F:	‘Search by Author, title,

I:	Yeah, takes a bit of getting used to

quiet conversation

F:	They’re going to have you down as a country and western fan now!  You’re going to be doomed

I:	Yeah, it’s going to be like ‘buy the new Dolly Parton autobiography’!

F:	... search for music by ...

I:	They’ve given you 110 things

F:	goodness.  An encyclopaedia of country music ...

END OF SIDE
I:	If you click onto any of the things that are underlined you get more detail

F:	More information, yeah

F:	...

pause

I:	Yeah, that’s another thing that lots of books and lots of CDs seem to be doing, way of reach particular product that ... (?) ... obviously nobody, ...

F:	...

I:	if you bought it you could, you know, .. around with it, or if you owned it and you happened to see it in, you know, ...

F:	... 

pause

F:	... not click here (laughter).  Internet computers, 

pause

I:	It’s kind of ... inbuilt, oh though it’s all local rate,  I mean so it’s after 6 o’clock local

F:	okay, fine

I:	... won’t keep you on for too long, but like I say, the Tesco’s thing isn’t sort of on the Internet so.  Disconnect.  

pause

I:	So sort of, you can search in a number of different ways, you can either type in what you’re after here, search, or 

F:	Oh, I see

I:	you could go to different departments and see what they’ve got, what.  And then if you find any kind of product category you could click on that and it would come up with the ... precise plan.

F:	... (too quiet)

I:	yeah, if you click on those, sort of, I think click on there, it should add it to your shopping list.  doesn’t give you any more information than that, like it won’t come up with a picture or anything.  So if you check on to ... and see like how they kind of store the information, like an electronic shopping list, which I’ve been kind of

F:	Adding to 

I:	Working on for quite some time, yeah

F:	Place your order!

I:	I keep forgetting to delete it all every time I show people, now it’s nearly like three hundred pounds, but if you scroll down you can delete that there or delete the wine glass that I would have got, if you want to look at any of these, and so on.

I:	I’m not sure about this, I think this might be a peg door (?) to communicate with you, who knows?  We’ve never really used it, you know, to order particularly

F:	Keep imagining them to have pictures though.

I:	Yeah, I mean, how .. do you think, the design of this

M:	Some people get to use it (?)

F:	Yeah, I suppose, but like you say, just imagine like a cheeky doughnut to come up if that’s what you want, or like a picture, but I mean most people know what they want don’t they so.  I think it’s good that you know the price, like you can sit and work it out and calculate it, or you know, if you did

I:	Yeah, it would give you a running total of

F:	I think what would be really good would be if you were looking for something in particular, I’m trying to think

I:	If you click on, no actually if you click on Show Department that’ll come up with the sort of front page, and then you go from there

pause

F2:	Yeah

F:	Who shall I try

I:	Oh!     That’s funny, cos I’m sure if you went to Tescos that had like new ... you could buy it couldn’t you?

F:	You could get it, and I’m sure they’d do women’s magazines,

I:	Yeah, it has all the daily papers and stuff

M:	Try GQ and see what that says.

F:	How do I

I:	Go back to Show Department and that sort of front page, with the search

F:	it’s in capitals would that make a difference?

I:	Shouldn’t do really, it should be a more

F:	No

M	Women’s magazines, see what happens

I:	National Enquirer?!  That’s like an American gossip magazine

F:	I read it every day!

F:	That is funny, not there

M:	...

I:	it’s funny  because really it should have everything that they have in their stores here, I mean, what happens

M:	Oh, they definitely do, all the, they do all the car magazines and sports

I:	Yeah, I mean, they do loads of stuff don’t they in the big stores, but if you, what happens with the tester thing is that you can load up your shopping list, send it off to, over the Net, and they know what your nearest store is and they’ll send a shopping list to them, who’ll make it up, deliver it to you at the time you’ll tell them to deliver it so assuming your local store sells it you should be able to get it.  

M:	Yeah

I:	And you know, most Tesco’s sell the same thing

F:	If they’ve got offers on, would they put them on do you know as well

I:	Well what happens is that this is like, sort of ..., this hasn’t been updated since we got it which was three or four months ago, and that was the kind of current price list.  What you can do is you can kind of update it by going onto their website, so this isn’t on the net, on the Internet at the moment, it’s just like a, you know, we’ve got to have a CD disk, load it on, but you can go and download new prices for things as often as you like.  And also if you then make up your list and you go up to their webpage with the list it’ll tell you special offers.  But this is quite a sort of basic package, like Sainsbury’s launched their kind of Internet type computer shopping thing quite recently and I think that’s a bit more sophisticated, you know, you can do a lot more.  Also, the advantage of this is that you can spend as long as you like making the shopping list and you’re not paying for it because you’re not on the Internet, and then you can

F:	That’s very good, yeah. ... so if you forget something then it’s easy to go back and edit isn’t it.  You said that if you wanted to find an actual brand, do you have to type that in

I:	Like a brand, sort of like what?

F:	Well if they stock something particular, like a particular brand

I:	Yeah, I’d try and type it in there, I mean you could look for it under, say if you want a particular kind of  bread that you can’t get ..., that you’re going to look for, you could go to Bakery and try it but it might be quicker if you knew the name of the brand to type it in and see what it came up with.

pause

I:	you alright there?

F:	God, what have I done?

F:	There we go!

I:	Look at all the different kinds of bleach you can buy!  Okay, well, I mean

M:	Yeah, yeah.  Well, I mean, with something like that it’s how accurate they’re going to be on their delivery, sort of, the ..., sort of frozen things, icecream and, it only needs  for the van to get caught in traffic and be half-hour late, and your food

F:	... a lorry that 

I:	...  Which of those ones did you sort of,  ...

F:	Umm,  I really liked the travel one, because it’s something we actually wanted to know about I suppose, whereas the rest of it was more just like playing to get to know it, but saying that something like  com would be really good if you’re

M:	...

F:	If you were like ..., if you just can’t get out it would be really good for music and that if you could just type something in, ...  quite like them ones, but then again they’re more you know what you want and you’re going straight for it

I:	You don’t get to try it on though

F:	No, I don’t think clothes would, would be the big clothes  sale

M:	How much do they charge for this, do they make any charge

I:	For delivery?

M:	For delivery or

I:	Yeah, Tesco’s charges you £5

F:	Not per delivery, to actually use this service they charge you

I:	No, no it’s completely free, they’re just promoting it, like they, you know all you do is fill in a form and the store they kind of do the rest, you know.  If they served your area, ...

F:	Be good if, you know, a party or something and you couldn’t get out and you wanted it all brought round, it would be great actually.  Not as bad as I thought, I don’t

M:	Probably use it, because it’s like tonight, if we were going to be in then we could just say, right you know, settling down, Tuesday night

I:	That’s exactly what it is, you can say, I mean you can’t, I don’t think you can do same day delivery yet but you can say like, tomorrow night, within an hour, within a half hour even

F:	Really?  They’ll give you a time, which is excellent isn’t it.  Most things it’s like am or pm ... I’m more impressed with this than I thought I’d be.  It didn’t appeal to me at first but having seen it like that it seems straightforward really isn’t it, it’s got everything that you need to know.  More ... for clothes, definitely

I:	Mmm.  And what about the adverts?  Did that, I mean, what did you think of that?

F:	Well they’re a bit annoying really aren’t they? I mean they do tend to look, oh I was, the ones with the big flashing thing, I tend to think that’s your page.  I suppose because we don’t know, we didn’t know what they were I was looking at that thinking oh this is it.  They did draw you to it but I imagine once you know that they’re going to be there you just turn off.  But, no, I didn’t really like the adverts

I:	And what about the thing where, you know where it was sort of recognising me, I mean I think it’s quite funny, you know

F:	Yeah, I think that’s clever I suppose because it’s personalised and it knows.  I suppose if you buy the same thing every week like most people do with a few variations, I mean you can do if it’s already typed in and you can delete the things that you don’t want and leave what you do rather than have to start putting in everything again.

I:	Yeah, sure.  With the Tesco thing you can have like a kind of

F:	What you usually

M:	Sort of like a list

F:	So that you remember your cheese and your milk

I:	That would be once a month, that would be every month you want washing powder or loo roll or whatever

F:	...

I:	Whatever, yeah

F:	So yeah, I quite fancy that.  Think I’d use it.  Maybe not a lot but

I:	Okay.  Can you think of any sort of, you know, down side to it?

F:	Umm, think 

M:	...

F:	Yeah, ever!

M:	That has a lot to do with it

F:	I think the thing that, the downside for me would be like you say, if you can save your staples, your staple like foods, it saves you having to go about loading it, looking it all up, going to your different categories, but I suppose the more it gets to know you the more it knows what you do want and what you don’t want.

I:	Right, bit like kind of more labour-saving,

F:	Yeah, that’s right.  I think for us now it would take quite a time for us to put our shopping list together don’t you, but I suppose once you get to know your way around it a bit more, um. There isn’t that much of a downside, I mean it’s convenient isn’t it?  You’re not being charged for the service

M:	Definitely quicker than actually going

F:	Think the only downside, though not with the computer side, is the delivery, it’s only as good as the person packing at the other end. So, do it ... I suppose. 

I:	Yeah but at the moment, Tesco anyway are doing kind of west and north-west London and it might be the last thing that someone  

F:	Yeah

I:	 

F:	Is there like a minimum amount that you have to spend each time?

I:	I don’t think so, I think they kind of, the £5 delivery charge covers it so if you want to buy a magazine for a pound and then pay £5 for the delivery that’s kind of, they’ll be like ‘fine, we’ll deliver it, you know, it’ll cover our petrol’

F:	You can imagine people taking that, quite out to the extreme couldn’t you, a packet of cigarettes and a, you know, but if they’re willing to do that so it’s up to them isn’t it?  I think it’s a good idea.  Be interesting to see how Sainsbury’s and the other stores, how they go about doing it cos I imagine it could get very competitive

I:	Mmm

F:	...

I:	And what about sort of,  I mean in some, I don’t think there were any in any of the ones we looked at, but on some sites you have to give them quite a lot of personal information for

F:	Don’t like that, I don’t like having to give.  Thinking about it, you do it when you fill in, like your Reward card, you give it to them anyway, I don’t know, when it kept coming up with that warning other people can actually see, you think, oh, junk mail, junk mail.

M:	Whether you’re buying or just looking, you have it a lot, I think I would probably just look at cos I would be a bit loath to give over my name, my address, if I’m just going to spend a few minutes looking through.  I don’t think you are, I mean obviously if you put all this stuff it has to be useful

F:	I mean if you put your credit card number in there, can anybody get to it? I mean, how are they going to work security and 

I:	Yeah, I mean it’s one of those big things about shopping on the Internet is that security secure documents, you used to get those when you kind of go and try and shops, but now it says ‘you have requested a secure document’, they have actually taken steps and I don’t know how much, I’ve no idea how genuinely secure they are, I think there’s been very few cases of anybody reporting it, but I mean in terms of how people feel about it

M:	Thing is, if you order a pizza now, give them the card number over the phone, I mean.  

F:	Yeah, that’s true.  I don’t know.  Some things

M:	you’re taking a chance, you rely on the honesty of the person at the other end because they could, you order your things and they could just get straight on to the phone to someone else, they’ve got your card number, they’ve got the expiry date

F:	Imagine Tesco’s or whoever would use your details to send you every bit of information about you anyway, ..., and then it’s like the Reward card, they’ve got people , the market researchers who, without us realising it, are checking from our number everything we buy, to see what they’re doing, to see psychologically what we’re doing!

I:	They are!

F:	Although we don’t realise it we’re doing them a favour really, cos they, they can know what the market wants.  I’m afraid this is all about as well.

I:	And when they put that together with other information about you, all they might know for the moment is that ..., but you know if they put that together maybe with other information like, if you know, say you came up and used the website... good thing with the music, you know they might know your tastes in music, or if I had to tell them what job I did, kind of how much I earn, or whatever, you know, then they can begin to build up quite a concise picture

F:	Bit by bit they know a lot about you without you realising it, yeah

I:	And probably all they’re going to use it for is to target adverts at you, about

F:	But it’s still, yeah

I:	I just wondered sort of, people have lots of different opinions about how much they care about that, I just wondered what you thought.

F:	I think there’s, there’s so many people who know so much about you anyway, there’s ways of 

M:	Yeah, I’m not too bothered about 

F:	There’s ways of finding it out anyway, so I’m not too bothered, but I don’t like to think

...

M:	It takes you two seconds to realise you don’t want to read it and it goes straight in the bin

F:	We don’t actually think of it as giving it to them really easily

I:	Right ...

M:	... if I was looking through and I couldn’t go any further without giving them any more information then I’d just come out, I wouldn’t bother.  Unless it was actually something that I knew that I was going to place an order for, then I’d come out

I:	Yeah, there was one the other day, I was looking on trying to find flights, and I was searching all these different sites, and all these travel sites wanted my credit card number, before I could go and search how much a flight to New York was for

F:	Why?  

I:	So I just thought, oh I don’t like this 

M:	You’d probably find there’d be a report ... time it happened

F:	... yeah, things like that

I:	... someone’s policy, where are you going?

F:	Yeah, exactly.  So I’d say that would be a big downside, especially if you’re not too happy about all the information, but then you wouldn’t probably be using something like this if you were that worried about it.

I:	Yeah, I mean, at the moment we’re sort of trying to find out really what, what’s going to go on and how people are going to get into it.  It might be that it’ll just be like getting junk mail through the post, either this catches my eye or it doesn’t, you know, and you delete it or erase it.

F:	What about these really good offers, like ...

M:	  have got a computer, but if we were trying to get one I could see that we’d definitely be shopping over the Internet because it would save

F:	It’s the time isn’t it?

M:	Hour and a half that it takes to get there and shop, get back

F:	Even the phone call, although it’s not hard, it ...you’ve still got to go through it all, something like this you can just click

M:	carry all the bags up the stairs as well!

F:	yeah!

M:	To the front door rather than, sort of make two or three trips to the car

I:	I mean, I think they kind of like, yeah, I mean if you have a car maybe it’s slightly different but I think certainly it would save a lot of time for the people in London who don’t have cars and maybe like have to make a bus journey to the supermarket

M:	It’s so cheap 

F:	If you’re housebound or disabled or something

M:	if it’s only going to cost a fiver as well then

F:	that’s quite reasonable really isn’t it.  I don’t think that’s really

M:	It’ll cost you more in petrol, or time, ...

I:	And I mean, if you have, they don’t have it in your area, but I know that I have had taxis to do with work

F:	You delivered your work, yeah!

M:	That’s right, yeah, yes.

F:	Had to carry it home

M:	Any time between nine and five

I:	I could order it at lunchtime and say I want it delivered tomorrow night

F:	 And it would be there!

...

F:	It would be great actually, I think I definitely would use it, but it would be hard, I don’t know, because we shop at Sainsbury’s because it’s nearer to us but if you had every one of them on there you’d be like, oh, would you want to try them all, would you want to, or would you just stick with what you know?  I don’t know.  It would be interesting to see what the differences between them were like I suppose

M:	..., just put your name

F:	Get something from there, something from there

M:	and they would say, right, it’s this much in Tesco’s, this much in Sainsbury’s, 

I:	That’s another, I mean, that’s another thing that I’d actually forgotten but I wanted to ask you about, and you mentioned it, which is that umm, some Internet companies are developing these things called intelligent agents, which are like little bits of software where you know, they might like sit in the corner of your screen, like a helpful shopper, and you’ll call it up and you’ll say, I want to buy a Bob Marley CD, umm, go and find where I can get it cheapest over the Internet, and it’ll come back and tell you, or it’ll give you a list, umm. Or maybe you can say, I want to get such-and-such a thing and you know, it’ll go and negotiate prices, and you won’t even have go and look at the price, it’ll just say

F:	Come up with this

I:	I’ve been to cdround.com, and

M:	There’s so much on it that, sometimes when we go round to our friends’, you look through after a while and I get bored with all the options it gives you, instead of

F:	Too much of it, yeah

M:	giving you like a choice of three you’ve got a choice of thirty sites or forty sites and

F:	or like with the books, 110

M:	Yeah, I just couldn’t sit there and look at each one, I just want to sort of, it’s a lot easier if that thing went away and said right, I’ve found the CD and here’s the six best prices, the delivery times, that sort of thing

F:	Yeah, yeah, you could ask it, you know, how much is it going to cost me in total, how long will it take to get here

M:	One might cost more but you’ll get it two weeks earlier than the other one, so

F:	That’d be good.  That’d, if you could just look at the best deal and the timetable, which is the ... It’d be quite hard with shopping ...

I:	But that might lend itself well to some of the things that  ...

M:	... bigger ones as well, like electrical stores

F:	Yeah, that’s true, something like that would be worthwhile wouldn’t it

M:	Higher-price televisions, that sort of stuff

I:	Yeah, I mean, in fact, like cars, has quite taken off in a kind of way

F:	Yeah, that would be really big sort of like thing

I:	Not actually with the credit card, you can’t buy your car online, but finding out what are the best deals on a particular kind of make, registration number, you know, age and capacity, 

F:	Yeah, something like that would be really good.  Then you wouldn’t mind travelling a bit further to the garage if you knew that you were getting the

M:	If it is a good car the only way to do it is to actually to go to the garages

I:	Okay, well that’s pretty much it, so yeah, I mean, we’ll just trying to find out sort of what people think of all this stuff

TAPE ENDS







Ut23

User trial 23, 8.3.99, C2DE single woman, 18-35, Low IT

LM: OK, the reason I’m here is ‘cos I work at University College London and I’m trying to find out at the moment aboutcommerce and the Internet and shopping on the Internet
J: Right
LM: So (...) trying to find out about the Internet, so I was, if you could just tell me what you know about computers
J: Very little, I’ve done a bit of CAD, not very high level and I can do very basic y’know I can write a letter on a word processing package and save it and print it and very very simple spreadsheets that’s about it
LM: Right
J:  You said you wanted someone who was a complete... Luddite (laughs)
LM: We’re trying to get a spread of people
J: I’m actually going to start a course next week which is going to teach me all these things, so you caught me just in time, so, as yet, no, I’ve done a tiny little bit of Photoshop, but no Internet at all
LM: OK, so what context have you done the CAD? 
J: Um, I’m an architecture student so the more designery, the AppleMac, I can handle but not as well as I should really
LM: Are you a student locally?
J: Urm N
LM: Right, how long have you lived here?
J: Er, seven years just coming up to the end of my post graduate diploma
LM: So you’re nearly qualified 
J:  Yeah 
LM: So you haven’t had much call to use
J: Right, I write my essays on them  if I can’t get anyone else to do it for me which I normally can, I didn’t learnt to type at school and I was determined I wasn’t going to learn to type because I didn’t want to be a typist, of course now I really regret it But I’ve got this course...
LM: Yeah  so is it like...
J: Keyboard skills, erm spreadsheets, word processing for the first half of it and then going on to desk top publishing and all that
LM: (...) and what made you decide to do that?
J: Well partly because there are very few jobs in architecture at the moment so if I want to work in a field like arts or administration I need things like accounting, erm fundraising and I need desk-top publishing also because I want to put my CV on the Internet, my architecture CV  ‘cos it’s really expensive to produce a hard copy, thirty or forty pounds for just one
LM: Oh, right
J: So I can’t send it out unsolicited but if can get a er, website then I can e-mail it to people and
LM: (...)
J: It’s become so and I want to sort of get in at the beginning to give myself a better chance y’know, if I can’t get an architecture job it might help me get something else
(...)
J: my portfolio yeah
LM: So what have you read about the Internet then?
J: well my sister-in-law’s just gone on it and she in fact does do her shopping on it now
LM: Oh really
J: With Tesco’s I think, y’know just types it in and they send it round, she says it saves her a lot of money and time, and she’s got a couple of kids so she’s forever driving back and forwards
LM: Sure yeah
J: So she doesn’t have to do that and because she’s not in the shop looking at everything on the shelves, she just gets what she knows she wants and doesn’t impulse buy
LM: OK How long’s she been doing that?
J: Not long, couple of months
(...)
LM: Have you heard about the shopping 
J: Only what I’ve seen on the telly, every time something new comes out, I think Marks and Spencers have got virtual shopping now, and you can actually walk round the shop and take them off the hanger and look at the colours and everything
LM: OK (6.0) So how do you imagine shopping to be like (...)
J: Well I know it goes from very basic like a list of what’s available right through to you can sort of pick the can off the shelf and of course because I seen quite a lot of building walkways and going on for years in the architecture world for years, this is just a more detailed version of that really isn’t it
LM: (...) What about the Internet more generally?
J: I haven’t really got access to it but I want to get more into it, I’m trying to find somewhere I can have y’know a website and my CV’s mailed Maybe I’ll be able to do it through the college...
LM:...I’d have thought so Do you have a computer at home?
J: I did for a while er but I used to share this flat with somebody and she had a computer but she’s moved out I fooled around with it, did essays on it When you’ve got a ten thousand word dissitation to type up it is difficult with a lot of technical terms in it and have to do all the printing yourself
LM: OK, I’m just going to set this up, see how long your (...) is
J: (...)
LM: Sure
(Background noise)
J: Is this the new ‘98 package?
LM: That’s right, yeah Haven’t really had a chance to look at it yet This is to connect to erm UCL Hrm...
J: What’s that on there? The loudspeaker
LM: Yeah that could be it
J: That’s what I love about Windows is that even if you’re a complete idiot you can work it out if you try Yeah, if you think even ten years ago, how complicated it was, you had to speak BASIC or Fortran or all that rubbish
LM: Exactly The thing with web page design, now, even a year ago was just for techies whereas now you just get a package Ah that’s better Right, username
(Background noise)
LM: Right, phoning my boss
(laughs)

LM: It’ll be kind of annoying if this doesn’t get into this at all Hmmm
(background noise)
LM: (...) Hmm, OK, I’ve got to figure out what my bosses username is going to be... Hmm OK, try compuserve, that’s easier to get into I’m thinking I may need the password to get into this... Right, OK, right, hmm right this is (...) layout, OK Hmm
(background noise)
LM: OK, well I’ve brought a few website names that we can look at, shop on-line, and what I’ll do is get you to look through some of themand just play around with them and see what you think...
J: OK
LM: If we start off with Waterstones, which is (...) erm, OK You can see the sort of cursor, and then it changes from a point to a hand you can see it’s something you can click on it to look at something else so you can see, er there’s a link to HMV’s website use these bars to scroll up and down as you would on a word-processor and usually anything underlined or in a different colour means you can click on it
J: Right so that’s cross reference to different entries?
LM: Yeah  Or more details, or whatever, just have a play See if there’s anything you want
J: There was something that’s out of print, can’t remember what it is
LM: There is an out of print book search so, try that
(20.5)
LM: Try the right hand button
J: OK Double click or single?
LM: Single usually Maybe it’s reloading it, OK, erm hm
J: (...) found mice a bit difficult to use, er, I have to delete that don’t I? 
LM: Yeah, click on that first
J: Right, then backspace?
LM: OK, erm what shall we look for?
J: Erm, I know it was out of print, what was it, I was trying to, I was looking for something the other day Anyway let’s not do that it’s a bit boring (...) Diary 
(11.0) Bit slow
LM: Erm (10.0) OK
J: Quite interesting isn’t it, the list of events 
LM: (...) and there’s books are y’know it’ll take you to a more detailed description and how much they cost and erm What’s that about? Virtual reading group meetings
J: That’s just the same Doesn’t tell us anything about it
LM: Bedford libraries are holding a virtual reading thing, but when you click on the link it’s about erm, how to buy it from a short description
J: Quite good actually  How do I go back? LM: Use these arrows here they should take you back and forward, go back again or
J: Back at the beginning again
LM: Yeah
J: I suppose it is quite interesting The best thing about these things is erm for people who can’t get out really
LM: Hold on
J: (...) 10 million I mean presumably they’ve got their whole catalogue on here and you can just 
LM: Yeah, I think so
J: And you just type in your credit card number
(...)
LM: Yeah, I’ll show you in a minute how you go about ordering something and you can... have you anything you want to look for
J: Errm, let’s see, think of a good word that’ll be in there Hmm Gore
(laughs)
LM: OK
J: OK, so I’ve got to put that in there presumably
LM: And then you can look at title or erm, (...) Internet Zone OK, this is a little warning you get when you send information across the Net
J: Nothing with gore in the title at all? Don’t believe you
LM: Let’s try something else, a general search
J: I can see how people would become completely obsessed with this
LM: Umhmm, in what way
J: Well, computers are absolute time vaccuums aren’t they? I mean you go to the computer room first thing, play with it for about an hour and when I come out it’s dark
LM: Umhmm
J: Where’s that time gone? People are getting a divorce over these things now, aren’t they?
(Laughs)
LM: Right (...) There’s an architect’s book (...) on a theme park (...) Nothing was found
J: They haven’t got a huge architect’s section, Waterstone’s
LM: Right
(3.0)
J: OK, I’ll type something else (8.0) Right, William Boyden (...)
LM: So you can see it gives you the most obvious ones listed first and then anything (...) to order so just click on the (...) and anyway, see when it’s published
J: Here it is, (...)
(21.0)
J:  Paperback, £1.50 on top of the price, fill in details where you want it delivered, card number Same as over the phone
LM: Then you click on this to process it, you’ll get a message saying the info is passed on
(...)
LM: So that’s pretty much it, you have to give your e-mail address and... So what else do you fancy having a look at? There’s Body Shop, John Lewis, HMV, CD Now is like an American CD supplier...
J: Let’s go to John Lewis’s, I like John Lewis’s
LM: OK
(12.0)
LM: There you go
J: Hmm Shopping at John Lewis Hmm So you can’t actually, maybe you can and I’m not in the right place 
LM: I think you can shop on-line they just don’t show you pictures of stuff There’s some stuff on computers here
J: Can you (...) into this thing? OK, buying a PC Hmm (8.0) 
LM: OK, again that’s just information
J: A look at their recruitment bit
(laughs) (background noise)
J: Nothing about their window-dressing department, you’d’ve thought they’d have something on that
LM: Umhm I’m sure it’s got contact details you can write to or e-mail or whatever
J: So this one’s not actually that useful, you can’t actually do any shopping can you?
LM: No I mean a lot of erm, these websites will now have quite a comprehensive list of products that they store and even if you can’t find them you can find a lot of information about them Obviously this isn’t one of them (...) partly because the amount of stuff it stocks is enormous
J: (...)
LM: Something about duvets and curtain poles
J: That’s quite useful isn’t it? If you want to just check out whether you’ll be able to get something or have to go into town for it Have you got a supermarket on this list of places to look at?
LM: Unfortunately we don’t have the Tesco’s thing on here anymore, we used to have the Tesco’s shopping facility but our other computer got stolen and we haven’t replaced it yet, although we could go to the Sainsbury’s website and see what that, that’s been updated quite a lot recently, mm, that’s not it Maybe have a look at Tesco’s as well, compare them
J: OK
LM: OK (...) 
J: That’s where an existing customer could enter here, presumably
LM: (...) work OK, I don’t know whether we’ve got Shockwave or not, click on erm...
J: (...) this symbol to a button
LM: Looks like it hasn’t loaded properly yet Haven’t got page up and down yet Let me look at (...)
J: Can you drag the screen up into the corner a bit or get rid of those lines
LM: Here we go
J: Let’s do this one then Click number to... top button to get back to... Only one number isn’t there?
LM: OK
J: Hrmm That’s no good is it
LM: Press top Help
(laughs)
J: Try return? This is all getting a bit... loads of overlaying pages (...) Have to try and get Help (...) OK
LM: Try...  OK, so here you can get more information about things by doing this or pass to the next screen I think this is quite boring now, just list customer number 
J: Hrm
(35.5)
J: Just go to the next screen I think
LM: As you can see, they obviously have all these different services of where you can check, order, see whether it’s been delivered yet, OK different kinds of shopping list
J: Hrm
LM: OK
J: That’s pretty straight forwards isn’t it?
LM: Yeah
J: This is where you choose (...) sometimes I think they deliver on the same day It’s not letting me do page down, I can’t see the blinking thing Get that screen up a bit further (...) Why won’t it let me close it? Click that there
Don’t want to minimise...
LM: Try that one See if that’ll work...
J: Better but still not... I mean I assume there’s nothing else at the bottom of the screen and all this tells you is... what you can do in different bits, still not getting to the point where you can see what you can order, or how it’s presented to you
LM: Which is what I want you to see really
J: Not letting me do it though
LM: Shows how once you get to a catalogue you choose beverages or hot drinks or whatever then you narrow it down but won’t show you how to do it
J: It would be better if they had a little program with a talk through, Welcome to Sainsbury’s
LM:  It would be better if I could actually show you our Tesco’s one which was activated and then you could get a much better feel for it This I think is very confusing 
J: Seems an awful polaver to go through to find out what you need to know before you actually prepare to sign up for it Plus you actually have to go round Sainsbury’s and sort of bask down everything you might ever want Which is why Susan I think, decided to do the tesco’s one because they have a list of everything they Sainsbury’s you have to go there and set the whole thing up which is very strange
LM: It’s not much of an incentive
J: Let’s go to Tesco’s then
LM: They’re not good enough, I’ll write and tell them
(laughs) LM: The Tesco’s one is kind of different because what they have is that it’s not actually on-line, you can do it off-line erm so you kind of send away for a CD ROM, load it on the hard drive like Word or Excel or something
J: I saw it the last time I went in there then Just like a little magazine for fifty pence or something Connect you up
LM: And because you’re not using the Internet you’re not spending money on local phone calls and you can just browse away for however long
J: But you still have to have a modem link obviously to send in
LM: To send in, but you could just have an e-mail account, or even just phone in but I suppose that slightly defeats the object
J: It’s also more expensive, though isn’t it because the computer just goes (clicks fingers) and it’s there, whereas you could spend half an hour on the phone
LM: OK, right
J: Cruise the aisles on-line yay, go,go,go (laughs) That’s much simpler that’s exactly what you want Existing customers only
LM: No, guest scroll down a bit
J: Where are we?
LM: There, ‘Be our Guest’ yeah OK, limited (...) OK, fair enough
J: At least it’s clear
LM: Yeah
J: (...)
LM: what do you fancy?
J: Erm, fruit and veg this is one that always puzzles me, I’d find it difficult to buy things like that or meat without being able to prod it
LM: Mhmm
J: Right What’s happening?
LM: Don’t ask, I think maybe it’s (...) the left and as you... scroll down I suppose this just narrows it down a little bit Always pictures of men in there
(background noise)
LM: OK Add to your shopping basket the number of items you require, click... scroll down

J:... click on a button and hammer the right Really weird
LM: How about erm, erm see if they do Green and Black’s organic dark chocolate powder
J: (...) chocolate powder
LM: No product
J: (...)
(laughs)
LM: Text box and click 
J: OK, so if I go back to hot chocolate and it’ll do all the hot chocolates they have Think that’s a no then isn’t it? At least you know you wouldn’t waste a trip going for it
LM: I’m still not entirely sure what they do this one
J: Organic produce, how do you get back? (...) fruit and vegetables, 
LM: (...) back to dairy (...) dairy produce
J: (...) sandwiches
LM: Currently no products in the aisle
J: Course they do (...) See what stocks they’ve got Hmm  How much does all this cost when it comes to browsing around...
LM: Well you’re charged a local phone rate and it tells you how much... we should probably get off quite soon, but usually you pay to have Compuserve, maybe ten fifteen pounds a month to have access before you’ve started paying for phone calls, erm the reason I’m going through College earlier is it’s a free server and it’d probably very easy for you to use it at University as they have a server and you might have to wait or it’ll be slow, it’ll be free
J: I want to know what primal beef is (...)
LM: In touch
J: Had a nice life before it was killed
(laughs) Naught product, fresh beef, erm, very strange weird I find it hard to believe that Tesco’s sell meat over the Internet erm (...) It doesn’t tell you how much this is for which is a bit annoying 
LM: Usually it does, if you use the home one it tells you how much per whatever and per pound or kilo or whatever
J: Maybe it’s because this is the tour rather than the actual thing, OK, it’s much easier to use than the other one isn’t it
LM: Yeah This is the Compuserve ‘what’s new’ 
(21.0)
J: Right, I see OK, let’s go away from that then
LM: OK I’d like to just show you one more and then go off-line This is a CD one which is, I think one of the most successful shopping sites at the moment and see what you think compared to these supermarket ones which aren’t much to look at (24.5) Right, got a favourite artist?
J: Mmmm, there is something but I haven’t got the details of it Do a search on Classical, see if I can find it just by erm, seeing whether it had a subject index I could search under, but it hasn’t (6.5) That’s no good then Hmm, OK, erm, (27.0) That’s quite good isn’t it?
LM: What? J: Y’know sort of going to the record shop
LM: Yeah, I suppose the way it’s catalogued is quite...
(4.5)
J: (...) what I was looking at the other day  I suppose er
(5.0) 
LM: (...) the term
(17.0)
LM: Scroll down  actually
J: Mmm
LM: Choice of... 
J: Yeah
(14.0)
J: Might be but it’s not in the they are a writing trio Holland, Dozier and Holland 
LM: (...)
J: Right, it’s impossible But I thought there was a compilation, they didn’t sing their own stuff they were writers and... So where have we got to now? 
LM: Links about the person, recommendation for further listening, scroll down, there’s a list of everything they released and you can click on to for further information and this is for sound clips from this
J: OK
LM: Erm
(...)
LM: If you click on one of those it should close them Launch a bit of software... Yeah Turn the volume back up
(Music)
J: They wrote all the stuff for people like the OJ’s and Otis Redding and all that sort of Motowny stuff
LM: Great, let’s try another one You can see the sound quality isn’t very good because it’s in mono but if you had a better 
J: But that was enough to make me realise I’d got the right people 
(music)
(...)
LM: You can check back catalogues
J: (...)
LM: Obviously this is a fully integrated website and you can buy this now you could go and... add to your shopping cart for eleven dollars, cheap as well as it’s American prices and erm, you can go and pay for it Obviously (...) it’d go on your account (...) enter details, account, address, how much post and packing It’d store the information and OK if we get out...
J: That’s excellent, that’s really easy to use and enough information to find what you want
LM: I suppose it is easier with music
J: Yeah
LM: In some ways if you’ve got all products by type maybe
J: Yeah
LM: So yeah, the other thing that CD Now does is it stores information about you so I mean I’ve bought stuff from there and it’s got a record of purchases I’ve ever done when I’ve logged in, searched, what I’ve bought and it sends e-mails once every few weeks with a personalised up-date of things it thinks I might like Sometimes it get’s it right, sometimes it gets it wrong sometimes I’d never want to buy, but another thing I wanted to see what you thought of really, is erm these services potentially gather a lot of information about your spending habits if you’re a Tesco Customer if you have a loylaty card
J: I have
LM: Then the companies that issue loyalty cards arebeing able to use the information to make sense of your spending habits, the idea being that you’ll be able to go to Tescos, swipe your loyalty card and they’ll provide you with ten money off vouchers for things they think you might buy But they’re only valid that day and it’s an incentive to spend money on things and from what you’ve already bought, they’ll give money not off things you usually buy but things you might buy and tell you’ll never buy whatever, but might buy... 
J:  Yeah, there’s so many vouchers now which I’m assuming to a certain extent are targetted directly at me, I mean I never buy processed food always just meat and vegetables so (...)
LM: Yeah, kind of like that, I just wonder what you thought of that?
J: I don’t mind it actually erm, I’m one of those weird people, even though I’m a bit of a leftie I’m not anti those things like ID cards, which I think everyone should have from birth which has their medical details on I find it quite fascinating I used to work in the retail trade years ago and always found that sort of Psychology of Shopping fascinating I don’t mind being targetted, I mean I don’t mind doing these groups, I wouldn’t do this sort of thing if I... were paranoid or worried, conspiracy theory
LM: In terms of how effective it might be do you think that if somebody knows, y’’know erm has this information about tastes in music, food, your health, how often you spend on certain things do you think it helps them to market more effectively towards you or do you I mean urm
J: Oh yeah, and I don’t even think it’s a modern thing, just that it’s just erm with technology a much huger volume In the old days you had a shop that you used regularly and they knew you and if something came in they thought you wanted they’d ring you up or whatever, exactly the same thing It’s just more difficult to keep track of everyone now Now we’ve got this you can There was a big gap between old fashioned service and this, dealing with the sorts of numbers we have now Twenty years or so in between where we haven’t had it and have to get used to it again
LM: A technology lag
J: Yeah
LM: What about if people can share the information? I mean say Tescos and CD Now and Waterstones what if they share that information and pool 
J: Yeah I’m not so keen on that because it’s always possible other organisation y’know political organisations could get it and use it for other reasons which is a bit worrying I’m not thinking so much the food we eat but if we got to the point where, say were the South African business was happening and you bought South African food, and some Political organisation got hold of that information they could target you, or what books you read, if you read gay books for example or something like that, it’s a bit worrying and I usually do tick the box that says ‘don’t’ , I mean you don’t want to be inundated with stuff all the time do you?
LM: OK, another development also kind of alongside this is the possibility to get intelligent agents software to do some of the searching for you, so say you want a CD and you know you can get it at CD Now, but you want to know if you can get it cheaper anywhere else, now at the moment you’d probably have to do it yourself, HMV, Virgin, Tower, y’know check a bunch of them, but now they’re developing software that will enable you to just feed in the information you want and send off the software to search the web for you, and you’d have this little Agent click on it, it’d say ‘what do you want me to find’, set the parameters, say ten cheapest, and it’d come back and tell you what it had found
J: Sounds like a fantastic idea
LM: Sound good
J: Oh yes, I did, I asked someone to do an Internet search for me to find info on a type of outdoor air-conditioning, cooling towers and I know these things exist and I know they’re on the net somewhere but there’s pages and pages of complete rubbish that came out if you put in general search words and if you could send something to do it for you and give it strict instructions it’d be OK and save a lot of time and hassle and rubbish that I didn’t want
LM: OK sure, some of the ideas thinking ahead are it can negotiate for you or go and find places for and give it an upper limit on spending, y’know go and close the deal
J: Right, I suppose if you give it... these things are only as stupid as you are yourself, and give it the right parameters and it’s not a problem There are a lot of idiots around, who given this thing that could get into huge legal problems if it was in another country, but just to do the search
LM: Can you think of any legal or regulatory issues around shopping on the Internet? 
(5.0)
J: Well you hear these stories all the time about things like erm copyright laws being broken and music being downloaded, now, and erm import duties, sending off for things like Viagra when it’s not legal in this country, and all kinds of things, or buying a house in Australia which you probably could do y’know whole other legal system and money transfers backwards and forwards
LM: How do you think that’ll work out?
J: Oh over the next twenty years, a more global economy I don’t know if you’ve been reading this, Sunday Times chronicle of the future thing It’s really good, it’s they’ve done it year by year, projecting into the future sort of thing
And they reckon we’ll just have one currency and it’ll be the EuroDollar and everything’ll be the same everywhere Although I think there’s a strong trend fighting against that globalisation at the moment People try to keep the individual identity Very much as it’s going with Europe already
LM: OK
J: Don’t know whether I’ll want to be around to see it (laughs)
LM: (...)
J: My neice who’s five is much more computer literate than I am and you can just imagine the conversations with the parents, get my computer, I want my e-mail 
LM: Yeah 
J: Even now I know I’m way behind and if I don’t get on board soon... I’ll have missed the bus
LM: Do you already feel like that or do you think you could pick up? 
J: I think I could now but I don’t know if I leave it much longer, that I’ll be able to There are things now I just don’t understand how they work, the technology for a start and up to ten years ago, I don’t think there was anything I didn’t understand if it was explained to me, but things about computers I just don’t get (laughs) and I know people of my parent’s generation are absolutely terrified of it, but something like that if you’re elderly and can’t get out is so helpful 
LM: It’s funny how it’s (...) I’ve just got back from the States for a couple of weeks and everybody there... I was staying with a friend of my own age, but her family are all on e-mail, her grandparents are on e-mail erm, all her family and the thought of my parents and especially my grand parents, yet at some point they must kind of permeate up the age and...
J: I think if my grandparents were still alive probably would have gone on it because they were quite techno... y’know they liked it I don’t think my parents, I mean they haven’t even got an answering thing on the phone They’ve only got a video from years ago (laughs)
LM: OK, that’s pretty much it really...



Ut26

User trial 26, 13.05.99, ABC1 single parent, teenage kids, no PC

LM: Okay testing right right. Okay so I work at University College London and the research we’re doing at the moment is um for ESRC, Economic & Social Research Council
AL: Okay 
LM: And we’re doing some research on some electronic commerce which is shopping on the internet and using the internet to kind of buy products and doing research for products and stuff like that and we’re just trying to kind of find out whether people are going to get into this in a big way and if so what kind of things they are going to use it for and what might stop them using it and just sort of a whole bunch of issues around 
AL: And it’s really in some ways I don’t know if it was actually successful here but in America they’ve got this what is it home shopping service where they do it on the television
LM: Mmm Hmm
AL: Or they have a television home shopping channel I believe it is
LM: Mmm yeah
AL: Um I was watching this thing last night or the night before I I I so what are you selling products on this?
LM: I’m not no
AL: Oh sorry
LM: I mean I’m (…) research basis
AL: Right oh sorry yeah
LM: So I mean we’re looking at it from a sort of social and economic point of view really just trying to er the government thinks it’s going to be very big, they’re trying to write legislation for it 
AL:  and (…) 
LM:  And lots of companies are getting into it in a big way, so it’s kind of timely to kind of try and 
AL:  Find out 
LM:  Do some sort of impartial research really to find out what people think of it
AL: And it will be all so are you going to show us then I suppose what net pages of
LM: Yeah
AL: Of, is it hypothetical or real?
LM: It’s real
AL: Oh
LM: I want to show you some stuff that’s out there now, and we expect that it will grow massively in the next few years but there’s already some stuff to look at and that’s what I want you to look at
AL: Mmm hmm oh okay yeah. I I d’you know by strange chance digressing slightly but in the same vein have you heard of the like distance learning?
LM: Mmm hmm yeah
AL: Again computers are taking (…) um (3.0) I don’t think actually I have mentioned this but um I I was able to sort of not participate but listen in on someone who was giving the lecture on computerised distance learning
LM: Mmm hmm
AL: And Staffordshire University I believe has just run a course of no teachers as such no teachers but the course was computerised and they could go in on disc or online, email other students and build up a complete network without actually meeting anyone
LM: Yeah
AL: But could build up contact, it was amazing I mean it really was an amazing concept that this chap was explaining that had happened at his university and he foresaw that within the next generation or two which in real terms is not that long that form of computerised learning where universities are now looking at cuts etc etc how can we get the most students in and reach them as well, so this does not surprise me
LM: Yeah yeah
AL: It is sorry this is going to be quite an interesting 
LM:  Oh well I hope so (laughs)
AL: (laughs) Quite an interesting (1.0) Do you know actually I turned the heating on but I think I might turn it off cos it feels a bit warm
LM: I feel a bit warm yeah
AL: Yeah I won’t be two seconds (leaves the room)
LM: Can I ask you a bit of stuff I mean sorry how old are you?
X: I’m 19
LM: 19 okay so what do you do at the moment?
X: I’m working in a hospital at the moment, it’s quite good for my credits (…) I like do one day release quite good yeah
LM: So what’s your college?
X: I go to K
LM: Uh huh
X: It’s actually like a (…) college. I’ll be qualified next year
LM: Do you use computers at all at college?
X: Yes I use computers
LM: And what sort of thing for?
X: Really for my essays and things and finding information for (…) like projects at college
LM: So do you use the internet?
X: Um well I’m a bit like (…) on the internet, I’d like to do it yeah
LM: Okay. And so have you had any experience with computers or the internet?
AL: Er I’m working as an administrator um and I’ve just in the last I would say three months suddenly realised how useful the internet can be um as you probably now The Guardian’s got a net The Guardian’s got a page
LM: Yeah
AL: Which has a backlog of the last sort of jobs that they’ve and that’s something I’m actually out looking for work and have been applying
LM: Right
AL: Um one of the postings actually was at X and 
LM:  Oh right
AL: Yes so um I’m crossing my fingers, hmm?
LM: No they always use The Guardian
AL: Yes it was actually a very interesting post so um um I applied willy nilly and as you know ran the page off and I thought ooh of course they haven’t contacted me. Put a word in when you go on (…) (laughs)
LM: Which department’s it in?
AL: Professional development. I’ve been working at R, I’m a what would you call me an administrator um but the area that I graduated last year I’m a mature student I graduated last year but by strange change there is um (2.0) a job that I was involved in um that was in the Educational Development office at R and A is like quite high up or not high up but she’s quite high up in her sort of particular field and I’ve been working for her er on and off now for the past three years and I hadn’t really even thought too much about staying on in Professional Development
LM: Mmm
AL: Or Educational Development and um (2.0) when I started checking out the internet on The Guardian all these Professional Development I thought this is something I’m already in and they looked really interesting
LM: Yeah
AL: So I you know sort of printing off and sort of happily sending off so it really is a useful tool
LM: Yes
AL: Um to know how to use and once you do start messing around on it trying to see what you can do you sort of actually my own personal you can get quite addicted to following sort of leads up
LM: Yeah
AL: And should I do this or should I do that and somebody else always knows something else that you think oh I must give that a sort of little look or see what’s happening, I think especially more when you look at current events
LM: Okay
AL: And the way the internet can keep you not only updated but can give you more background
LM: Yeah
AL: So now you’re going to sell us shopping on the internet, shop til we drop. So are you saying then that I mean really I mean say somewhere like Harrods I um can run off with this one a bit but someone like Harrods
LM: Uh hmm
AL: You could have maybe like a virtual reality view of the store or have you said this already sorry (…)
LM: No no no
AL: Just when you I mean you could pick your items is that where we’re going is that what you’re?
LM: That’s one possibility, there’s not really anything quite like that
AL: Oh
LM: On the net at the moment
AL: Mmm
LM: But that would be your idea of what kind of would be a good way of shopping online
X: Yeah I mean (…) 
AL:  I mean I’ve seen sort of virtual I mean I haven’t used virtual reality but I’ve seen it in adverts and things like that and yeah I could well I that to me would be really cool
LM: (laughs)
AL: You know sort of scanning up the aisles and you know I I’d like to closer look at that product I mean you could do couldn’t you
X: Yeah
LM: What do you reckon and what’s your kind of first idea about what 
X: Well mine’s really for at my college like books sort of things cos my friends actually order the books over the internet
LM: Right okay
X: Yeah cos you get them cheaper don’t you
AL: Mmm, well I suppose what you could do I mean without even having to leave your chair you could say I’d like to have another look at that like instead of being there so you could say I I’d like a closer look at that book, closer look? Or but you could sort of click onto it and it could maybe open up a page and you could you know just have a quick look is this really what I want is it covering areas that I want, you can get an in depth look at a book without cos sometimes you can buy a book or think you’re buying the right book and then by the time you get it home you think oh no this isn’t quite what I wanted so um really the internet could offer you a deeper insight cos you must be able to open things up I would imagine, if it’s books if you had just a like you do with the jobs
LM: Yeah
AL: That you click on and then if you want more a follow up then it will open up and give you so you could have thousands of books not standing wandering around a bookshop sort of footsore but just
LM: Yeah (…)
AL:  That is so cool. Sorry (…) 
LM:  No no no you’re alright I mean books are actually one of the things that has like you say taken off that people are shopping on line for at the moment. I mean it’s not quite technically exciting
AL: (laughs)
LM: Because the main problem I think at the moment is the band width is the sort of capacity of like a cable to actually carry enough information at a time to have like moving pictures and serious moving pictures
AL: But the scope when you really sit down and start thinking about it the scope of what the internet, have you seen that advertisement on at the moment you’ve asked me who it, he’s a man he’s standing there, he’s he’s speaking a song (3.0)
LM: What’s the product? (laughs)
AL: Yeah what’s the product? No I think it’s the internet I think that’s the product. He’s on and everyone is listening to him and it’s like hotel link and there’s people in a café link and he’s he’s speaking it’s the Rolling Stones I think (2.0) oh I can see him standing there, a mature man and he’s speaking to a conference (2.0) I got ju-ju eyes
LM: Oh yeah yeah yeah
AL: I can’t think what that is but when you start taking those 
LM:  It’s in the Beatles isn’t it “Come Together”?#
AL: Oh “Come Together” that’s it, Rolling Stones I knew I was sort of going in the right area
LM: Yeah I know which one you mean vaguely 
AL: But when you start thinking of all these uses, to shop on it, to have a multi audience, not just how many you can fit in the stadium or wherever
LM: Yeah
AL: That people who can sit in their own homes and be linked in by computer to the Rolling Stones or somebody you know it it just sort of takes your breath away when you think how much scope there is for this. Sorry my mind’s
LM: No no
AL: sort of ticking over on this one
LM: No no that’s fine I’m quite interested in sort of stuff about the internet more generally as well really like. Can you remember when you first heard of the internet or sort of your first kind of contact with it? Was it sort of at college for you?
X: Um I can’t really remember (laughs)
AL: I can remember mine
LM: Ah
AL: It was four years ago when I started at university and who was it whoever was doing the introduction day and said oh you’ll all be surfing quite soon and I thought ooh I could do with surfing what is it? I mean I sort of knew that it was something to do with the internet and I thought I could do this and although I did use it I wouldn’t say I didn’t actually have the time to sit and play with it
LM: Yeah
AL: Unlike others who were there you know they’d be sitting there they’d bring something up on the screen and they’d be oh look at this or you know they’d pull up a film star or something you can get background on them and they’d be oh look what I got you know
LM: Yeah
AL: And I didn’t have the time to do that although I was aware of it
LM: This would be like in the college computer room
AL: Mmm
LM: So they’d be sort of like 
X:  (laughs)
AL: Yes so they’d all sit there playing with er playing like on the internet
LM: Yes
AL: Um but no I would say though really, it’s going to be a real contradiction here, it’s only since I’ve started work after that I’ve actually had the time er that sounds really like what do I do at work all day but it’s only since I’ve 
LM:  (…)
(all laugh)
AL: That I’ve actually sort of made the time to fit to start looking on the internet for specific things and then widening up and oh right um and obviously I used it for work er I say work I mean university work to draw off information that I wanted um but that was say like er infanticide or something that I was looking into and yes I was able to unload all this information that I wanted, oh I’m sorry 
LM:  No I was just going to say where did you get where did you sort of what did you know about it were you did you was your way in other people would say look at this I can give you an address or would you do searches I mean how did you?
AL: Do searches er it started off really hit and miss of not understanding what I was doing I think yeah I think I’m a lot more confident now that in trying to that if I don’t succeed the first time I’ll think about it and try another angle or another word or you know and try and limit my er shorten my search f ield to bring me closer to what I want
LM: So you’re more familiar now with how how you can get the most out of several 
AL:  Mmm
LM: Kind of engine searches
AL: Yeah yeah it’s um it’s quite um I mean once you start playing with it and you start realising oh look if I’ve done it wrong that way if I start doing it this way you know (…) and then it becomes not a puzzle but something that you’re not sure that each time if you’ve got the most out of this and you start still playing onwards well not playing that’s not the word but using it as a facility um just to make sure that you’ve got everything um but the really I I suppose that Guardian over the last couple of months 
LM: Yeah it’s a good sign (laughs)
AL: It is it is and that is a practical use the way um sometimes like you’ve missed a back copy or whatever whatever um and it’s practical that it’s there and you can keep drawing onwards um have I got this searching out or just spend not you’re narrowing your search field anyway by saying this is what I want and it might come up with say three hundred or something jobs or whatever but it’s so quick to just sit there going tttttttt like scrolling down to see no no no, you’re not having to laboriously page by page by page and then you get bored with it and you think oh I might be missing something
LM: Yeah
AL: So I think it’s an excellent tool. Sorry are you going to turn this on? I’m quite curious to see what you’ve got now
LM: Sure okay I’ll put it on and the other thing I wanted to ask you about just quickly before we start (3.0)
AL: Did you say you wanted our phoneline?
LM: Yeah 
AL:  Actually what I’ll do 
LM:  Can it stretch from there? And I have got a long cord if this (…)
AL: That’s okay. What I’ll do because I’ve got another phone plugged in upstairs I’ll run up and take that one off (…) (18.0)
AL: Are we on?
LM: I haven’t tried it yet but
AL: (…) (40.0)
LM: So yes in terms of the sort of shopping aspect of it um do you do 
AL:  Can I have a look at your like you’re your 
LM:  Yeah yeah have a look (8.0)
AL: Do you find that the more er this is a laptop isn’t it?
LM: Mmm hmm
AL: Um do you find how can I say it do you find that if too many people are on the line that because you’ve got a laptop it’s not as strong as say a normal PC?
LM: I haven’t found that yet
AL: Or is this just as good?
LM: Haven’t found that, but um I’m experiencing a problem at the moment (2.0) right okay, I’m just going to (3.0) oh that looks alright
AL: What one are you going to use the internet Explorer? Or the Compuserve?
LM: I use Compuserve, cos although I can 
AL:  Is this like a new product this Compuserve?
LM: No this is one of the older sort of um internet service providers so it’s kind of like a private account um, I just have to (6.0) have to um change the phone number so I can use (…) (9.0)
AL: It’s always isn’t it isn’t when you watch people it is so fascinating to watch the clicking of the buttons and you’re thinking oh yes I could do this I want to have a go. So you’re obviously quite a regular user then of
LM: Yeah pretty much yeah I’ve been working on 
AL:  Have you been shopping on the internet?
LM: Mmm hmm
AL: And do you find it useful? But then again surely at the moment it it’s more of a selective shop rather than
LM: It’s certainly not kind of even close to replacing most of my daily mundane kind of shopping
AL: Shopping
LM: Which is yeah what I was going to say what I wanted to ask really was kind of some stuff about how you kind of organise your daily/weekly shopping
AL: (laughs)
LM: No like say groceries, what’s your grocery arrangements
X: Once monthly
AL: Hmm I tend to do the main shop I mean what are we talk just groceries?
LM: Yeah like kind of food and household stuffs sort of 
AL: Well I I suppose I would do that but then she will sorry she, Kate will like do her own bits if you like, specialities
LM: Uh huh
AL: If that’s the word
X: Yeah
AL: When she’s like got her shopping time but that tends to be more monthly whereas I do the basic main boring
LM: Okay so sort of 
AL: Bleach and loo rolls yeah but that sort of boring stuff which tends to be Safeways or Sainsburys I don’t sort of go up town or you know Harrods or anywhere special
LM: Yeah so it’s big supermarkets round here that you can get to fairly easily?
AL: Yeah yeah Sainsburys but we’ve also just now recently had the Sainsbury’s local er 
LM:  I saw that actually when I was coming down and it was really strange as I’d never seen a Sainsbury’s one of the little ones before
AL: Yeah it’s quite handy although it’s not as in-depth as the big bigger Sainsbury’s
LM: Mmm
AL: It’s not as in-depth as that one
LM: (…) a more limited range of stuff
AL: Mmm and it tends to be I mean this is what I think it tends to be I mean obviously you have to use it and I do one of my little pet hates is I do begrudge paying the corner shop price for something that you know, I I oh I don’t know they’ve got to make a living though that if they were reasonably overpriced then that’s fine, but if they’re really overpriced then I think oh no I’d rather sort of take the extra five or ten minutes. But then you would take the extra five or ten minutes, you go to Sainsbury’s and you think well actually I could get this and get that and you 
LM:  Spend more money
AL: Mmm spend more money
LM: Right okay, so I’ll pull up one of the bookmark places that I kind of stored which I thought which pictures of a number of kind of places you can shop
AL: Oh there you are you’ve got The Guardian online, oh HMV
LM: Yeah like I was trying to sort of imagine what sort of things you might like as I have no sort of idea so if you’ve got any ideas of your own feel free, I mean maybe you could put 
AL:  What’s Amazon?
LM: Amazon is the big bookstore, it started off in the States, Amazon.com and there’s now a kind of British version 
AL:  CD Now
LM: That’s um a big American CD store
AL: So are you saying then that this is an American thing that um the first sort of out of the first three two of them are American, Diesel, is that American?
LM: Um I don’t know whether it originated there, it is a clothing store, I don’t know 
AL:  So is 
LM:  This is a British base I think it says Diesel Co Uk
AL: Is I mean does America use the internet for shopping now more?
LM: Mmm hmm
AL: Cos it’s still not I mean I wouldn’t say it was a new 
LM:  It’s not big I mean in terms of numbers of transactions and amount of actual money made it’s very very small over here
AL: Are you um (4.0) is it feasible then that within the next say few years we could hook into this and order from Sainsbury’s or Safeways?
LM: Mmm hmm you can do that now
AL: And they would have either deliver it or?
LM: You can do that now I’ll show you that
AL: Yeah? (laughs)
LM: Yeah
AL: Oh no!
(all laugh)
LM: But yeah the ones I’ve sort of picked out where 
AL:  But how come no-one knows about it, well I don’t know about it I mean why’s it not on on, I’m obviously not online enough to know about this
LM: There’s been a little bit of Tesco was the first superstore to launch a sort of 
AL:  No I don’t shop in Tescos
LM: Internet shopping thing and they launched it in very particular areas, certain parts of north and west London, I don’t know if the big one up on where is it, there’s a really big one been built?
AL: Cromwell Road?
LM: Yeah might well be, it’s massive, very new, I don’t know if that one sort of delivers for example
AL: Mmm
LM: But some of some areas nearby and that got quite a lot of press coverage. I don’t know about the other Sainsbury’s is just sort of starting off I think, I don’t think Safeway does one
AL: But they will I bet you soon
LM: I think yeah I think they’re all kind of figuring out their strategies at the moment trying to figure out where it’s going to go. Okay so 101 CD Store is a British kind of cut price CD place, Amazon is an American bookstore, BBC obviously, I don’t know why I had that
AL: What’s Film Unlimited?
LM: Well Film Unlimited 
AL:  Is that like the cinema releases?
LM: Now Film Unlimited is um a Guardian website, it’s a kind of film website
AL: So like film reviews? But could you place
LM: Yeah I don’t think I don’t think you can buy stuff through that, I wouldn’t be surprised if they haven’t got it now they will have soon. HMV, Sports Shop, uh Magpie Records which is a kind of specialist dance music, I knew that you had teenage children but I was sort of really guessing on sport and cds, but it wasn’t until Marks & Spencers, now Marks & Spencers don’t (1.0) there’s not a lot um you can buy over that, they’ve kind of limited themselves to sort of gifts like flowers and chocolates and stuff
AL: Oh right
LM: Right now I don’t know if you can buy 
AL:  So really what what so last minute gifts you can’t and you haven’t got time you could even now today you could 
LM:  And Interflora’s massive on the internet actually I didn’t put that one on but Interflora it’s the same service and you don’t even have to 
X:  How long does it take to actually receive it, if you place an order?
LM: You can probably get it done overnight and you can probably get it done the same day if you (…) early enough
AL: In fact if you think about it it’d be quicker you wouldn’t even have to leave I mean providing you had a computer there you wouldn’t even have to leave your office or your home you know you could just say oh can you imagine for the sick or for invalids or people who are confined to their home? But how would the blind use this, it’s not going to be sort of disabled, but then again they have talking computers don’t they?
LM: Uh huh yeah I mean this is you know despite the fact that it’s quite small it’s very much it’s being sold as a mass thing
AL: Mmm
LM: At everybody rather than you know that something’s that aimed at people who can’t get out I there’s a kind of an assumption
AL: Yeah
LM: That if people can do it and save there’s a sort of time saving or money saving element to buying stuff off the net
AL: It is yes when you think when you really start taking it apart of (1.0) just staying at home and then not only do you not have to bother then again you’d miss out on the socialising part but then again who wants to miss out on Saturday afternoons being shoved and pushed I mean you could (1.0) you can literally I mean you’ve got Body Shop there, Tesco’s 
LM:  Top Shop
AL: Sainsburys you just do your shopping 
LM:  Why don’t we start off and start off having a look at these? I mean just 
AL:  Can we have a look at Body Shop?
LM: Certainly can
X: Mmm hmm yeah
AL: And this the but you say it’s not virtual reality yet I mean we wouldn’t be 
LM:  I mean the Body Shop I’m not sure if you can buy stuff there but why don’t you (2.0) either of you I’d like you both to have a go at some point
X: Okay
AL: (…)
X: Where shall we do it?
AL: (…) (15.0) Is it stretching 
LM: I think it’s probably 
AL:  Hold on shall I are you plugged into anything this side or not?
LM: No no
AL: Shall I there we go 
LM:  So that you two can get a bit closer together (11.0)
AL: Do you have a, this doesn’t have a mouse does it?
LM: (laughs) No you, oh sorry
(all laugh)
AL: You know we’re we’re we’re not um up front with the old 
LM: No I’ve got used to this now because it was a real pain at first 
AL:  Where’s the 
LM:  It’s this little pad
AL: Oh
LM: It’s like quite sensitive and you just move that 
AL: Oh this is 
LM:  And go around (laughs)
AL: Could I could I can I just have a go?
LM: Yeah so you move that around and then you use this like the kind of the left click and the right click button on the left (5.0)
AL: (laughs) (21.0) Ah ah (3.0) So (6.0) so are they saying I’ve got to do this, what I want to do is create someone who looks like myself and see what I would look like with short hair (laughs) ooh yeah
LM: I don’t know if you’d be able to do that but you might be able to it says that you can select a model, I don’t know if you can do the hair though, I bet there are hair websites
AL: Do you know I was just thinking something like is it John Frieda and you know that Guy and Dave no not Guy and Dave, Guy and Steve no (7.0) Toni and Guy sorry
LM: Oh right, I don’t know
AL: That’s it (4.0) loading (4.0)
LM: What’s it doing? (2.0)
AL: I bet you within another couple of years it’ll be instantaneous (clicks fingers) (6.0) Are these laptops very delicate?
LM: Um
AL: You don’t treat yours delicately obviously
(all laugh)
AL: Ah right back to my makeover (4.0)
LM: They’re ok I think if you dropped it it probably wouldn’t do it any good
AL: No true true
LM: They come in an awfully kind of big padded bags (3.0)
AL: Let’s just try and move
LM: Yeah I don’t know what’ll happen if you move (4.0)
AL: Ah ha (4.0) I didn’t want to stop it I just wanted to get a flick through on, so uh
LM: What?
AL: Had I stopped there um at any particular thing cos I’ve missed that (2.0) I bet I had
LM: Yeah you had it was a um lessons maybe?
AL: Oh right okay, so um can I go back now I want to 
LM: Yeah I think you’ll probably just have to close that window with the square
AL: I’m hogging this but this (…) (3.0) oh do you know it cos I’ve stopped on a different kind of face so I was trying to think of how to kind of phrase that one
LM: I don’t know but it’s not entirely clear what’s going on here 
AL:  No it’s not am I? 
LM:  Whether its (…) lessons like where you kind of start and I don’t know 
AL:  But I want to make sure I’ve got the right face (2.0) oh (1.0) Virtual makeover apply yourself
LM: Yes
AL: Yes that’s what I want to do apply sorry (1.0) This is not (3.0) okay 
LM:  Try that 
AL:  Just click here (10.0) Oh I know I might (…) (5.0) I think for what I’m thinking this is doing and what this is actually doing I think we’re both doing different things so um er (5.0) Right now lets (…) I think I look
LM: (laughs)
AL: No I think I look most like, do I? No I don’t, you see unfortunately these are all young girls too (5.0)
LM: There’s actually some people, my boss is one of them, that are working on um the idea of having sort of these body scanner things where you can scan and get your body scanned um and have the information stored on a card or something 
AL: What do you mean like your health details? Or just 
LM:  No I actually mean for sort of clothes shopping
AL: Oh
LM: And cos you know sort of hairdressers, some hairdressers will do things where they will sort of scan a picture of your face and kind of 
AL: Mmm mmm mmm
LM: Superimpose a hairstyle, well it’s kind of like that but it’s 3d
AL: That’s what I thought this was going to do, well not do it like that well but at least, um do you want to have a go, sorry I’m hogging this
X: Yeah (4.0)
LM: And that would sort of work with these kinds of applications where you could maybe enter a card or something
AL: That would be so cool
LM: And then certain kinds of things like this you could actually maybe do online because you could (7.0) so how on earth does this work
(all laugh)
AL: I think this has got to be one of those ones where you do play with it first to make sure that what you’re actually thinking it does and what it’s going to do 
LM:  So that’s a lipstick
AL: I think she looks like you
LM: That looks like a lipstick
AL:  I do I do
X: So if I press this one it will 
LM: Yeah looks like it might be
X: Mmm (2.0)
AL: And now we’re going to see what she looks like with that 
LM:  Will it add it to her lips? Has it added that to her lips?
X: It did yeah, they’re a bit darker 
AL:  Oh go for the pinky one
LM: Oh yeah
(all laugh)
AL: Wouldn’t suit you don’t bother (1.0) Right let’s go um 
X:  What’s the foundation
AL: Go for the very pinky foundation there
LM: Is that the foundation in the middle layer, is that? 
AL:  Yeah, that one I bet you (2.0)
LM: Oh it’s blusher
AL: Oh is it, oh
(all laugh)
LM: It’s really funny
AL: Where’s the foundation then?
LM: That looks like eye stuff
AL: Oh yeah (5.0)
(all laugh)
AL: Excellent!
LM: That’s really funny what a nice little gimmick (2.0) Oh and look is it bringing up the details or?
AL: White gold, yeah yeah it’s telling you so you’ve used Briar Rose blusher Pink Orchid lipstick 
X:  Shall I just set the foundation?
AL: Yeah go for the oil-free liquid foundation
X: Shall I click on 
AL:  No just, mmm oh it’s not lighting up, go on Kath (…)
X: Hmmm (2.0)
AL: (…) no, I think it’s something definitely on that (…) palette
X: That’s lipstick isn’t it?
LM: Yeah
AL: Try that end one I mean you wouldn’t really have 
X:  Which one?
AL: Just down a little bit, yeah
X: Shades of lipstick
AL: Oh
LM: What about these, do these, no they don’t change 
AL:  Yeah, click click
LM: Oh no they don’t change
AL: Oh (2.0)
LM: Mmm (11.00)
AL: Oooh bit (…) (3.0) Well I’d like to see her with foundation on
X: Mmm
LM: Yeah
AL: (…) we must be doing something wrong um (4.0) no there’s not (…) (5.0) Hmm mmm
LM: Um
AL: Go to the lessons, let’s just see if they, at the top that’s it (2.0) Okay welcome to the let’s just go to number 1, I can’t be, otherwise we’ll just be sitting here for hours (13.0) This is so cool
LM: Mmm
AL: But I bet you it is a matter of knowing what it can do otherwise before you start playing cos you er as you just happened now I think we’ve been I’ve been thinking it’s doing (…) it’s capable of doing one thing but it’s not
LM: Uh huh
Al: Or we’re just not using it properly
LM: Well anyway, it can’t really do anything personal in that 
AL:  No 
LM:  It hasn’t got any details about you I suppose it’s kind of (2.0)
AL: I’m going into the realms of I think I’m going into the realms of virtual reality, oh yes it’s going to do something but it’s not, but it’s still pretty nifty what it is doing and it gives like especially that’s handy that whoever that model, the last one looked like Kate so
LM: Mmm hmm
AL: You could get a rough idea
LM: Mmm hmm (15.0) Okay so I suppose you use that to go 
AL:  Backwards and forwards
LM: Yeah (18.0)
AL: Face (18.0) If you’re busy during the day and you haven’t got time to shop (1.0) then you could when you’ve got half an hour at home at night put your feet up and just play around, see what’s out there what’s on offer with none of the foot slog usually
LM: Yeah
AL: Or the racing around that’s usually involved
LM: Why don’t we have a look at some sites because I don’t think you can actually buy anything from 
X: What happens if you like order clothes and they actually come like too big or too small how would you return them?
LM: Well they’ve usually got a returns policy, but I mean we could try a site with clothes and see what you think because for some people you know clothes shopping is something they don’t think they’d be into doing online sort of you know because of those reasons 
AL:  I think I would too
X: It’s funny you go round all these shops hunting for this like thing and you can’t find it
AL: Yes and that’s boring
X: Mmm
AL: Topshop okay (2.0)
LM: Let’s try it. I haven’t really had a good chance to look at this site yet so, let me know what you think. Somewhere they should tell you this on this site and see what you think of kind of do you, either of you use catalogues ever for shopping?
X: Definitely
LM: What do you use and what sort of what you know how do you find that?
AL: Great fun and because you’ve got (…) you can sit down in the evening I mean really this is like if it if it was online you could just flip through
LM: Mmm
AL: Um without, I mean I I (…) catalogue. If you’re busy working all day you don’t want to race around on a Saturday and go fighting with people in the shops and they’re all pushing and shoving
LM: What about the sort of waiting for it to be delivered. Is that a problem?
AL: No not often 
X:  They quite quick aren’t they?
AL: Yeah yeah
X: About three days to 
AL: No I 
X:  (…) delivery as well 
AL:  And they’re very quick too if say like you ring up and it’s I don’t know not a complaint because usually you’ve got as you say returns, you can return them if you want um you have to list down why but it (1.0) when you’re doing catalogue shopping you’re ordering in advance if that’s the word um so it’s not as if you, you know if you’re ordering something um say if I wanted a new dress for an event
LM: Mmm hmm
AL: Then you’ve ordered it two weeks, three weeks in advance because you know you know that you want to (…) whatever, it’s not like going out normal clothes shopping which obviously you still do but, I never, and yet they’ve got such a big selection too
LM: Right okay
AL: Where if (3.0) you’ve got I don’t know I’m trying to think of who but you know you’ve got Next you’ve got um I can’t think of anyone else (…) but you’ve got Kickers you know you’ve got all these 
LM:  Yeah 
AL:  Without actually having to go traipsing round the stores
LM: Okay and a lot of them are gathered in one catalogue 
AL:  And they’re all gathered in one catalogue 
LM:  Not necessarily in one place on the high street 
AL: Mmm mmm yes, it’s much quicker and its you can do it when you’re relaxed and you’re not and you can see it and look at it and do I like it I don’t know I don’t know and they’re quite cool about taking things back as well so 
LM:  And are you, I mean I haven’t used a catalogue for ages, would you, you have to kind of pack it all up and stick it in the postbox 
X:  Send it back, yeah 
AL:  Yeah 
LM:  Take it to the post office and bring it back
AL: But that’s not too much of a pain
LM: Okay well have a go at this then and see what 
X: Okay do you want to click on, right just browsing or? 
LM:  Just just move around using the mouse and see what what 
AL:  Let’s see shall we shall we just browse first 
LM:  Comes up (…) 
AL:  Then we can go and see stock listing 
LM: Yeah
AL: Cos it are you saying this is actually something that we could buy or?
LM: Maybe I’ve not used the TopShop sight before 
AL:  Would they deliver? I mean again 
LM:  I don’t know, like some do some don’t
AL: Start the (…) showcase
LM: It’ll probably take a little while for all the pictures to come up, but you can scroll up and down 
AL: I’ll choose a label (7.0) That’s that’s interesting you know you can actually choose I suppose just the colours that you want or if they you can see if they’ve only if they’ve got the actual colours that you require (14.0) As you buy items from the catalogue they will appear here (laughs) and look you can get a running total of how much you’ve spent, oh cool
LM: So it looks like you’ve just kind of moved to different types of 
AL:  Actually let’s go and have a look in Principles cos they’re I like, or do we have to stay in TopShop?
LM: No you can do what you like?
AL: Let’s go and let’s go and have a look in Principles 
LM:  I was just thinking of places that you might 
AL:  I quite like, oops (2.0) no don’t, go down a little bit, no, no. You won’t remember this but the (…) left a bit (10.0) Do you know what, sorry I’ve just got to run something up for (…) tonight
LM: Oh sorry (laughs)
AL: No no no. You know what that’s like you can miss six weeks and you still know where you are it seems 
LM:  They have an omnibus. Is there an Emmerdale omnibus?
X: No
AL: No
LM: Oh there is for most of them isn’t there
AL: Psycho Graham has just murdered um Rachel is it Rachel yes she is 
LM: Really? (2.0) Is this loading up or not?
AL: I don’t know
X: It’s back on TopShop again isn’t it
LM: Try one of the categories, ah right there you go
AL: Website found it’s connecting to site
LM: (…) up there, at the top
AL: (…) time this, oh here we go (4.0) this, oh I could definitely see this taking off bigtime (2.0) Shall we go and shall we no I was going to say shall we go in and have a look to new to online shopping? Win two, what was that, win two (9.0) win £200 of something from Principles? (4.0) Principles special (4.0) Thirteen items remaining twelve items, oh alright
LM: If you know what you want to look at you don’t have to wait for all the pictures to come up in this space (2.0)
X: What do you want to look at?
AL: Ummm
X: Browse the online store?
AL: No the browse the online store I think that yeah? (4.0) (…) usual prices. Oh special price £48 available in oh click on that spot dress
X: Do you click on it?
AL: Yeah where it says spot dress. Hopefully cross, maybe not
X: (laughs)
LM: Site’s got a mind of its own hasn’t it (3.0) Is this the spot dress?
AL: No I don’t
(all laugh)
LM: (…) somewhere else (14.0)
AL: Alright, let’s got and have a look being mercenary. Win a complete outfit
X: Where’s that?
AL: Up there, it’s one, two, three, four, five from the bottom 
X: Yeah found it (6.0)
AL: You have another chance to win £200 (…) (13.0)
X: Okay?
AL: Is that it?
(all laugh)
LM: Is it going to do something, hold on let’s have a look, no there’s no instruction
AL: May 17th the winner will be picked on, go on put your name in and let’s see what happens. Will we get charged for this?
LM: What for?
AL: Entering this?
LM: Oh no not at all
AL: Go on then put your name in (laughs)
X: What’s the um?
AL: Hold on let me put it in
LM: You just move the mouse over and then use the 
X:  (…) button
LM: Yeah that little one there
X: Yeah
AL: Oh hold on
LM: You have to move the mouse into the box, that’s it
AL: That’s it
LM: It should work, but then click on it again that’s it, like a cursor
AL: No (18.0)
LM: Yeah you entered enter, you just need to move 
AL:  Ah sorry you do not appear to have filled out all of your, press back on your browser 
LM:  Use the arrow there (5.0) That’s it (6.0)
AL: I’ve lost it now, you were going to win a fortune girl and I’ve lost it (laughs)
LM: (laughs) (5.0)
X: So you (…) no?
AL: Uh huh it’s not, what shall we do, shall we 
X:  It’s on a collection, (…)
AL: Alright then, yes um (3.0) Some (…) I think we missed that there was a (…)
LM: Right
X: (…) (8.0)
LM: I think the mouse takes a bit of getting used to
AL: (…) to (…) or go here to buy three exclusive designs, hmm (22.0) Shall we shall we go and look at something else? What’s Racing Green? (4.0)
LM: That’s another um, that’s actually a catalogue I’ve seen Racing Green catalogues
AL: Hmm
LM: Sort of quite classic kind of sporty casual type of stuff
AL: A bit like that packet?
LM: Yes it’s a bit like that (6.0) Hmm I know they’re already catalogue based I think there’s a couple of stores in London but basically they’re catalogues (4.0)
AL: Long lean effortless (…) (2.0) This is a very nice way to shop I mean you really could be sitting here for hours just you know flipping around oh I’m bored with this 
LM:  that’s what most (…)
AL: Going on to, yes
LM: It’s a little bit slow today I’m a bit disappointed 
AL: What I’ve heard, oh
X: (…) internet (…)
LM: Okay
AL: Maybe not then
LM: Why don’t we try something like books or cds cos I know that those sites are a little bit more reliable than this
AL: Okay
LM: If you go to the heart there it should (1.0)
X: (…) pressing down, just (…) (4.0)
AL: Favourite places
LM: And try, if you go back up that little list, what do you fancy cds or books?
X: Um
LM: Try both? X: Yeah
AL: Oh Radio 1, does that mean that we’ll be able to listen to the radio on it?
LM: Mmm hmm
AL: Wow (laughs)
LM: I don’t know if you can listen to what’s going on now. Can we just look at a couple of I just want to sort of show you what actually the buying bit the transaction bit is like
AL: Mmm
LM: Um try CD Now that’s quite a good one. This is an American one that sort of doesn’t exist, I think you have to yeah, that doesn’t exist in the real world so it’s one of these kind of new rather than a kind of conventional company that’s put itself on the internet it’s just one that’s started up on the internet only
AL: The shopping cart, does that go with us from shop to shop? Or on all of our trips around so that we always have an update I mean say we were sitting here, we’ve just bought some items in Principles and we’ve just bought some items you know in HMV would our shopping cart?
LM: No at the moment
AL: No
LM: No I mean it’s a reasonable question because at the moment the way it works is that it’s within each site so (2.0) you can potentially put a bunch of things in your shopping cart here and then pay for them and leave, or you could save them and not actually kind of complete the transaction
AL: Mmm
LM: And kind of close that site and look at another one maybe go a bit later, I mean weeks later if you wanted to um
AL: Mmm, I mean there is, not that we’re like that but there is the chance that you could just shopaholic out
LM: Yeah 
AL: And not be able to cover your expenses
LM: Yeah yeah and the payment mechanism is credit or debit card as well
AL: Mmm mmm
LM: So with a I mean like if you’re simply using it to put lots of stuff on credit cards then you can definitely do that. So I suppose okay this has quite a lot of features this one 
AL:  Duel of the fat?
LM: Anything you’re looking for? (2.0)
AL: Is is going to play music? Duel of the fat?
LM: We can play some music
AL: Star Wars (3.0)
LM: Try it, I haven’t tried it yet (2.0)
X: (…)
AL: Mmmm? Oh I was looking actually I looked at this one here
LM: If there’s something you’re after at the moment or something you like you can look for something
AL: Ooh yes let’s ooh ooh I know um let’s see how good this is
X: Oh that’s went into (laugh)
AL: Oh there we are it’s back again oh no it’s not
LM: I think it’s cos this mouse yeah the little bit that you use to move the mouse you can also use to press enter if you like hit it it will also
AL: Ah right
LM: Turn, so what do you fancy then
AL: I I I I remember this really obscure, let’s see (3.0)
LM: Okay the cursor’s in there (8.0)
AL: Right is it double click?
LM: What are you after?
AL: Oh cos I want to find it, oops, no oh well maybe not (4.0) I mean if this was your own computer you’d know, Tom Waitt
LM: Let’s just go back, do you who’s the artist?
AL: That’s a good thought isn’t it
LM: Or the song title?
AL: (4.0) Various artists and it’s the from the CD ‘Seven’
LM: Okay
AL: Now let’s see
LM: So let’s see the title (2.0) album title, let’s see what happens when we put ‘Seven’ in (8.0)
AL: Well you wouldn’t think there’d be that many
LM: (laughs) (3.0) What’s this? (4.0) Seven, oh it looks like it’s a group
AL: Mmm (4.0)
LM: Movie title, I didn’t see that
AL: Ah yes I didn’t see that (3.0) Oh that is so nifty if you can’t even remember what the song’s called but you know you’ve seen it in the film. You could see this taking over from television couldn’t you, people sort of huddled around their little computer screens (laughs) oh I’m sorry (2.0)
LM: Right
AL: Oh look there it is
LM: Which one is it?
AL: Brad Pitt’s oh Brad Pitt Brad
LM: That’s the, okay now I wonder as these are videos, these are sort of (…) these are all video titles
AL: So now oh right so we’ve gone sort of slightly 
LM:  VHS, (…)
AL: Hang on what was that (…) (2.0) Seven Years in Tibet, ooh Brad Pitt’s made a lot of films with seven in (3.0)
LM: Okay hmm (14.0)
AL: Good thinking (13.0) Soundtrack (11.0) See what see what the album advisor recommends?
LM: Yeah that’s another thing that (…) That’s another kind of feature of what these some of these sights do is that they’re because because of the capacity of the internet to store information
AL: Mmm
LM: It only takes a very simple programme in a way to kind of to do that kind of thing on the basis of very little information
AL: Yeah
LM: So you know once you’ve searched for five sort of movie soundtracks it’s intelligent enough to realise that you like movie soundtracks
AL: Mmm yeah yeah
LM: And might try and offer you other movie soundtracks
AL: Right so you can hear some of these. That’s it Gloria Lynn “Speaking of Happiness” I thought that was absolutely brilliant, now let’s see cos it do you know that afterwards they had it in that film not film sorry some kind of tyre commercial
LM: Press volume
AL: Oh let me turn the light on sorry I’m being really silly here all huddled round
LM: (…) (4.0) What is going on here (6.0)
AL: Original 1995 ooh (5.0) I mean this is the type of thing if it works er I mean obviously at some stage it will work but um you could actually before you’ve bought it listen to a few of the tracks so that something where you buy a cd 
LM:  That’s exactly, exactly what it’s trying to do yeah
AL: You buy a cd or you and then you find oh I only like one or two on there
X:  (…) songs
AL: Yeah. Actually a lot of those people seem to be classic, classical like Charlie Parker (14.0)
LM: There should be a volume button here
AL: It looks like it’s playing and we can’t hear it
LM: Yeah that’s what I think is happening, where was my volume button I had earlier? (6.0) Oh this is very annoying
AL: That said audio but oh sorry 
LM:  Yeah no that is the audio 
AL:  You know what you’re doing 
LM:  Yeah there’s it’s a kind of er, cos this is working and that’s playing
AL: Oh
LM: And I can’t get any sound out of it
AL: Oh (26.0) I bet you as soon as we quit playing with this you’ll suddenly it’ll start singing along the road or what have you
LM: Yeah it will it’ll be (…) on the bus home or something. That’s so annoying, it looks like quite a good soundtrack as well (…) monk, great
AL: It does doesn’t it and I I I went into actually it was HMV I went into down in the market and listen before you buy, what’s that it maybe that can um 
LM:  This is it 
AL:  Oh that is it oh I’m sorry 
LM: This is it, no I mean what’s going on with this is that the real audio which is a little programme within 
AL:  Maybe you need like headphones or something
LM:  No it works, the speaker’s in here, oh I don’t know what this is (3.0)
AL: See if you can move the little button along (3.0)
LM: I give up
AL: Or it’s an internal error
LM: I don’t know, if this is even it though, yeah and maybe if I started the computer again but I don’t really think we’ve got time, anyway the thing is that you can
AL: Yes yes it would be  
LM:  I mean you can find things
AL:  Fabulous to, yes I would to that mmm yes I would definitely be interested (4.0) Oh this disc is as glib, pretentious and effectively cynical as the hit pip
LM: Oh here you go yeah we’ve got some quotes
AL: As a hit pip creepeth on itself it’s as schizophrenic as a seriel killer too veering from Marvyn Gaye to (…) as if it were all new fodder for the depraved oooh
LM: Then it’s got some details about (3.0) and so on
AL: Excellent
LM: So there’s all these different things
AL: Mmm
LM: Now there’s this other thing which I’m quite a fan of on these things which is wishlists which you don’t have to buy it there if you don’t want to spend any money now
AL: Mmm
LM: But you can save (…) in your own private account, now I’ve got my own account here so (3.0) I’ll show you that cos that’s quite an interesting
AL: No we didn’t manage to um 
LM:  For some reason the volume 
AL:  It didn’t want to know 
LM: I’d turned the volume off on the machine earlier because it was really noisy whilst the modem was connected and I can’t switch it back on again (laughs) What I’m doing now is that this site has a sort of thing that you can customise it and you can give it your own details and it will store all the information about what you’ve done with the site so you can go back to it
AL: Mmm
LM: And look at things you were looking for last time you were online
X: Okay
AL: And I suppose the if you still want it then a week, a month later
LM: Exactly yeah (3.0)
AL: And if this was HMV I mean it it where are we now on um CD Now but if this was HMV could you then internet through your details and they could have it waiting in the shop for you or let you know if they don’t have it in stock and you don’t have to waste time going down there
LM: Well I don’t know what how HMV do it um cos I haven’t tried their website yet but I have actually bought things from here um and basically you can check if they’ve got it in stock
AL: Mmm
LM: Do you know what I mean but if this is just a warehouse somewhere in the states so they kind of do have it in stock then it’s pretty unlikely they don’t have it, it’s not so good on British artists as it is on American ones cos it gets British stuff on import
AL: Mmm
X: Mmm
LM: So you don’t save that much money but for American music it’s very cheap (7.0) Ah here we go now (4.0) There we go it’s found me. So there’s things that I’ve already saved on the wishlist a lot of them um there we go now its added that
AL: Ah
LM: So this is just a list of things that I’ve searched for that I you know tried to look see how expensive they are just to kind of 
AL:  It also gives you (3.0) one it could I suppose if someone else could log in I mean obviously you’ve got your own personalised (2.0) but could anyone else access this information if you didn’t I mean you’re saying you’ve got your what I’m trying to say um is you know when like something or (…) somewhere someone will be compiling all this data
LM: Ah hah
X: Mmm
AL: of your likes your dislikes your
LM: Absolutely absolutely
AL: clothing your I was just tonight we were reading in the Evening Standard and it was something that jogged my memory a while back, you’re too young for this but twenty years ago there was no such thing as CCTV all over the place, there, you can’t walk down the street now but we and we have been influenced to believe that this is all for our own good (1.0) Ah it’s so because the I think propaganda for this thing is so strong that that it’s not we’re being tracked we’re being monitored we’re being it’s invading and we now we have this I mean on a negative, yes it looks great and we can play with this and all the rest but if someone somewhere I mean this is just a hypothetical but if someone somewhere they could quite seriously know everything I mean not just our security numbers that we think are all private but in fact they’re not they’re all logged every time we want to buy something they really would be able to build a profile of us
LM: And what do you think they’d do with it?
AL: (laughs)
LM: No I’m (…) there’s a lot of discussion about it (2.0) What could they do with information about 
AL:  Depends on who you are and what you want the information for, I mean we you can hypothesise away can’t you but hypothetically if you know that someone I watched oh Seven actually it was Seven I watched this film Seven and um I don’t know if it was true but they were saying in the film that somewhere that in America if anybody has a library ticket and they the government has a hit list, actually it didn’t sound that far fetched to me, but if anybody buys marked books, books that are earmarked from the government’s list then they are tagged through their library ticket as maybe being subversive, but surely we have the right to explore information, okay maybe not about building bombs but um I don’t know there is a security element. I mean if somebody was buying or loaning books that taught them well yeah maybe but then again it’s also an invasion of our privacy
LM: Yeah
AL: Was it Rousseau, Voltaire, Rousseau – “I may not agree with what you say but you must fight to the death for everyone’s right to say it” and as long as it’s not a violent sort of speech then hmm
LM: But that’s I mean that’s a kind of freedom of speech argument is obviously a big one on the internet anyway like have people got the right to say racist things for example have they got the right to say anything 
AL:  Did you by any chance because this was a big thing and there were what’s that word ‘niggerdly’
LM: Oh yes
AL: There was an article
LM: Yes yes
AL: Ooh and that is such a, because to actually come down on a negative impact on this girl’s I think it was a girl actually, this girl’s mentality I I then that it went this far as to actually appear in newspapers what is going on? Will one day will our speech be limited to words that cannot cause offence that words of not more than two or three syllables in case they do offend someone who doesn’t know what the  mean and we start going on and on. Where, there are negative oh I don’t know 
LM: What if I go back to the internet
AL: Sorry yes
LM: Um in terms of this data collection obviously
AL: Mmm
LM: The flipside in a way of what you were talking about earlier which is all this information, you can go into so much depth
AL: Yes
LM: You’ve got access to all this information and you can store it
AL: And if someone wants to build a profile on you and you see this to a point how can we get the hypothesis going if we don’t know why they want the information 
LM: What do you think the internet’s capable of at the moment in terms of storing information? I mean what 
AL:  I think it’s capabilities 
LM:  Is the best that it can do  
AL:  I think it’s capabilities 
LM:  Or that it does do?
AL: The internet’s capabilities or it’s 
LM:  For storing information
AL: I would say it’s limitless almost isn’t it?
LM: Mmm
AL: Isn’t it?
LM: How do you think it works? Do you know anything about like Cookies for examples?
AL: Cookies?
LM: Cookies
AL: You mean, you don’t mean the biscuits?
LM: (…)
(all laugh)
AL: No. What’s it, you see again you start talking to people someone else knows this someone else knows that and you start building up especially like you’re saying ‘Cookies’
LM: Okay Cookies
AL: Immediately our interest is what’s Cookies?
LM: I’m not sure if I can give you a very good explanation because I don’t really know much about the technicalities of how it works but when you, when we go on the internet and visit different sites
AL: Mmm
LM: We leave like little mini programmes in the computer saying 
AL:  So that they know how many people at at that’s how they say oh three hundred thousand people logged on to whatever it was
LM: Yeah and it’s but what else happens is that um then we next say we next go to the HMV site
AL: Mmm
LM: Because we’re kind of cos it’s an interactive thing cos it can come both ways cos we can send information and they send information back
AL: Mmm
LM: One of things they can do is do a quick scour of the hard drive and see where else we’ve been so they can see that we’ve been to CD Now for example and there’s lots of little kind of there’s lots of humming and haing about Cookies and whether you need to you can disable them like if you kind of know how to you can go in and stop that happening 
AL:  If you know how to, but I would imagine average Joe Public doesn’t 
LM:  And different sites have different kinds of policies on it and er if we had a bit more time we could compare some of the different sort of privacy statements and things on different sites
AL: This is so good because at first, sorry I I I’m starting to think about this now. When you first say things like this we’re like all sitting here and we’re together playing on it and it’s like oh yes but then there is 
LM:  Well no I think it’s like I do I’m interested in what you think because one of the things that this could do, I mean in some ways I’m 
AL:  Would you mind very much I’ll open the window would you mind if I smoked?
LM: No not at all I smoke myself so it’s ok
X: So say I go into HMV website and you go into CD Now is that the price?
AL: (…) It’s always that 
LM:  Yeah I mean I’ve bought stuff from CD Now and even paying post and packing I find it (…) 
AL: Mmm everyone is so anti smoking these days I mean it’s one of these underground things we’ll be joining Speakeasy soon, or we’ll be heading underground we don’t like to do it now in case you’re starting to offend someone
LM: I don’t find it too bad working at university cos everybody smokes, but no the price difference, let’s look at some of the prices here
AL: Actually I’m just going to run up to the loo
LM: Alright so PJ Harvey is British so it’s $15 so it’s not that much cheaper, cos $15 is probably about 10/11 quid
X: Yeah
LM: But by the time you’ve added a couple of quid for post and packing you’re not saving loads, but the American stuff like Bob Marley and Nina Simone as well which is quite old is like $11 so that’s already like 7 or 8 quid
X: Yeah
LM: And that’s the kind of stuff that I’ve sort of bought you know things that are just so much cheaper
X: Yeah, cos I’m (…) books at my college, cos I’m going to college next year
LM: Yeah
X: I can’t wait for it to be finished this year, too much studying
LM: So what are you going to be qualified as when you’re done?
X: As a Pharmacy Technician
LM: Oh right, what does that mean?
X: Making dispense medicine and the Pharmacist will check it
LM: Okay
X: Quite interesting though
LM: Yeah
X: It’s the college side I don’t really like
LM: Mmm, were you working at the Charing Cross?
X: Chelsea and Westminster
LM: Where’s that?
X: Fulham Road, sort of like going past Chelsea, Stamford Bridge
LM: I don’t know this part of town all that well
X: Where do you come from?
LM: I live in Finsbury Park (4.0) So yeah so I mean a lot of it is cheaper. What what sort of music are you into let’s do a search and see how
X: Um what do I like, Robbie Williams
LM: Robbie, see Robbie won’t be that (.) they’ll have it but it won’t be that cheap I wouldn’t have thought because we can compare on the British side if you like
X: Mm
LM: Because this is American so they’ll have to import it
X: Yeah
LM: Although I don’t know what record label he’s on, if it’s an international one it might be quite cheap. Here we go (3.0) (…) Has Landed’? Is that? Yeah, you see they have not got a lot here (2.0) Oh, ‘Life Thru A Lens’ I see…
X: (…) isn’t it, that one?
LM: But that’s only (2.0) eleven eighty eight, which is twelve dollars, which is about eight pounds (4.0) and these are all imports (1.5) but then some of these are (…) I wish I could get the sound to work, it’s so annoying. If we try that from a different, what else, let’s try something else, are you into any American stuff?
X: Um (1.5) What’s that new one that’s just come out, um, in the charts? (1.5) The New Radicals?
LM: Oh that rings a bell, yeah that rings a bell
X: (…) last weekend
(9.0)
X: Is this your computer?
LM: It’s for work
X: Do you take it home with you? LM: Yeah it’s great, I can work at home sometimes
(2.0)
LM: Is this it? 
X: Yeah, that’s it
LM: That’s the one? Okay, so that’s twelve dollars
X: Yeah that’s the one which is in the charts now
LM: Okay, so they’ve got a bunch of stuff around it. They’ve got an article (2.0) ‘See what the album advisor recommends’ (6.0) The Barenaked Ladies
X: Yeah I’ve heard of them actually, they were on telly the other day
AL: Someone was saying that they’ve just done a concert with The Beautiful South, um
LM: Oh yeah I think that might have been where I saw something about them, supporting the Beautiful South (2.0) Alanis Morrisette, Offspring… I’ve never heard of some of this stuff
AL: I personally, I think this is going to be one of those things that every, it’s going to start snowballing when people realise. I mean so many people are on the Internet now and we’re all being encouraged to get on the Internet and it’s just going to start snowballing
LM: Well let’s try another, a British CD site and see how cheap they can do it. And there’s HMV, but there are cheaper ones, probably something like this which we found a newspaper article about (2.0) This is British. Right, let’s see if we can search here (10.0). Twelve pounds, as opposed to twelve dollars
AL: Oh well that’s not too bad then is it?
LM: So that’s pretty cheap I think for… How much did you pay for the other one, what’s 
X:  Um I bought ‘You Get What You Give’ and it was about (…)
LM: So it’s a really similar price. I think you pay like about eighty pence post and packing in Britain but you probably pay two or three quid in the States, so some things are really worth it 
AL:  Mm
LM: Others (.) aren’t. Like I bought a CD that was like ten dollars, which is like six pounds, and that was really cheap, I couldn’t get it that cheap over here (2.0). But in terms of the data collection thing (.) um what they want to do really is they want to use the information that you give them when you go to a website to make offers to you. They want to know 
AL:  Can you 
LM:  For example I get emails quite regularly from CDNow because I’ve from them before
AL: Mm
LM: And because I’ve got my own sort of account there (1.5) offering me things
AL: Can you? LM: I mean usually they don’t get it right, usually they offer me things that I’m really not that interested in
AL: Mm
LM: It’s not a very sophisticated way of doing it right now
AL: But can you say click and say no, I don’t, please don’t send me any information? LM: Yeah I can choose not to get any information from them
AL: Well then that’s…
LM: Well I suppose I’m interested in it because I’m researching it, I’m interested to see what they do, but you can tell them not to (.) Um
AL: Mm
LM: So I mean, how do you feel about that? Them trying to, them using information to kind of try and market things to you. Similar thing to what’s going on with store loyalty cards
AL: Yeah yeah
LM: Not just to give you money off. Ultimately, when they’ve got their head around the technology, they want you to be able to walk into Sainsbury’s, swipe your card in, and they’ll offer you money off vouchers for things
AL: Mm
LM: Things that they think you’ll like based on what they know about what you’ve bought already
AL: Again, profiled
LM: Yeah. Customer profiling, it’s the big, new 
AL:  Mm (2.0)
LM: They don’t want to offer you things that you’re never going to buy (2.0). If you’re a Guardian reader, say, they think it’s probably unlikely that you’re ever going to buy the Telegraph, say 
AL:  Mm
LM: You know, they can make these kinds of assumptions 
AL:  Yes 
LM:  about you (1.5). Similarly like if you always buy like olive oil and ciabatta and blah blah, you know, then there’s no point trying to market you (…) I don’t know, whatever, but for every product they can kind of, they’re making assumptions about your tastes and about your lifestyle, and about (.) if they know some things, they’ll try and 
AL:  You see then it’s also limiting it, isn’t it, as to who you want profiling you, because there is another, um, I mean that is actually something that’s just flipping over in my mind now (2.0) You don’t know who else could be profiling you, do you? I mean, not necessarily, I mean by chance [laughs] by chance I started to flip through that George Orwell ‘Nineteen Eighty Four’ [laughs] but it’s starting now, it’s really starting to ring bells with me, that (2.5) if you’d have said twenty years ago that (.) I do wander off on these tangents, but if you’d have said twenty years ago (.) not only can I be watched, but I can be profiled, it’s like, mm, it does lead  you to where, where is it going to stop, and how far can (1.0) can these (.) I mean, I would imagine the capacity of this to be (2.0) humongous (.) and you sort of, phwoar, it’s quite scary. I suppose for someone like me who’s an older generation to you two it’s going to be, oh I don’t know, but for the younger generation who maybe haven’t thought or, obviously not ‘haven’t thought’ but maybe, you know, maybe they wouldn’t be quite so anti being profiled and being labelled and tagged and…
LM: Does it make a difference if it’s done by (1.5) by who’s doing it. I mean, what kinds of people don’t you mind giving information to? What kind of information do you think is okay to be held about you? (1.5) Is it alright for them to store information about everything you’ve ever done on CDNow’s website, for example? AL: Well what happens if I’ve just flipped into something to have a look at it? I mean, going back to that Seven film, I don’t know how accurate it was, but it does, to me it wouldn’t surprise me the way it was said, that if you tag into these books, well what happens if I, just out of curiosity, tag into or, like yourself, are doing research on something and, or, and I, you know, does that mean I’m going to have MI5 knocking on my door? ‘Who are you? What are you doing? Why are you interested in…?’ Whatever it is. Um, did you hear, oh you must have read in the papers, that um (1.0) I can’t remember how many, but there was all these secret agents and they were listed on the Internet, so if they can do that to spies, I mean, I don’t know if they were spies, ‘spies’, but or if they were just (1.0) whoever, but if they can do that, well what’s to stop them… Because we start off something, doesn’t mean that it’s always going to be that way, and we don’t know what other people want information for. Um, and really it’s still very much in a (2.0) in an infancy (.) now and could we be prepared for changes that will gradually change our lives
LM: Do you think that you have any control over it? AL: No I wouldn’t think… I mean, you were saying about these cookies, um that I can be traced, um, so I mean I could just want to (.) tap into (1.5) the Waco bombing or, I’m sorry, I’m just trying to think of something, you know 
LM:  Yeah
AL: I could tap, just out of curiosity, and that you know, someone could say ‘oh why is she doing that and let’s keep an eye on her’. I mean, it does, I mean, we’ve just sort of (2.0) 
LM:  But is that kind of political stuff that bothers you?
AL: Mm
LM: I mean I hear what you’re saying, that your tastes might be kind of misinterpreted, or they might be interpreted accurately, but you know 
AL:  Yes, and surely we all have a right to privacy and confidentiality, um
LM: So where do you think those rights (1.0) come from? I mean, do you think there’s a role for government, say, in regulating the Internet?
AL: Hm, now that really would be (.) um hm [sighs] well it’s got its uses definitely, I mean, from the (…) of home shopping, there’s definitely a huge um (1.0) market, I mean, the concept of what this could do when you think of just going online to order your basic, boring weekly bits and then scrolling round to see if there’s anything else you fancy, what, you know, if you’re going to, if you’re going into the supermarket and you’re absolutely knackered and you think oh I do want to get something but I can’t be bothered
LM: Mm
AL: I mean to have it all prepared and ready, maybe with other things there that you, yes
LM: Yeah
AL: But then there’s other things that (1.5) this is obviously a toy, not a toy, I mean it’s a tool, and if you’re not aware of what you’re doing then you could be blundering in on things um that just have such far-reaching ramifications for you, for our everyday lives. And I think, we really are crossing a threshold at the moment, um, where our social structure is definitely changes (um) from, we are monitored now (2.0) um my favourite bug at the moment [laughs] CCTV, and yet I know it’s got its uses 
LM:  Like the thing with the whole Brixton bombing, like maybe it can help solve crimes 
AL:  And we are, I think there is a strong media propaganda happening, and I am just against propaganda of any form at all
LM: Mm
AL: But I think there is a strong propaganda happening at the moment that is convincing the general public that it’s in our best interest to be monitored at all time. Surely that’s an invasion of our privacy. But then we go straight back to, and this is where the Brixton bombing and that (.) enforces (…) but if you weren’t monitored all the time, then you know, these people would have got away with it. Jill Dando’s last shopping hours, you know, we’ve seen her up in Dixons so, and, so um, and you can’t argue because the argument is not a structured one yet, to be against the invasion of an individual’s privacy
LM: Online companies are beginning to get quite sensitive to some of these issues. I mean some of them realise that (.) that they can go too far, that they can alienate people that could be customers, if they don’t 
AL:  Mm 
LM:  give them these kinds of options, of opting out of having a kind of data collection 
AL:  I think they’d lie (1.5)
LM: You wouldn’t believe them?
AL: No:: I seriously think they would lie to us, and say you know, ‘you have sort of private shopper confidentiality’, and I don’t think we would. The temptation there, that (.) I, you know, I wouldn’t be the only one to start thinking along those lines, and I (1.0) I think big business is going to say what we want to hear, as the government told us for many years, ‘there’s no such thing as BSE’ or, you know, turns out yes there was, and we were being deceived by the government, and I don’t think it is at all far-fetched to say they would deceive us again
LM: Okay, so you don’t think there’s a role for the government then in regulating what companies can do it. In terms of the govermnent 
AL:  Oh 
LM:  regulating corporate behaviour, so whether (.) 
AL:  Actually I think there would be a, because I don’t think you could trust the corporates either [laugh]. Um I think they would quite seriously be more interested in what’s marketing, and what, what their consumers want to be 
LM: So essentially they’re just interested in making money, I mean 
AL:  Mm, and I don’t think they would be um ethical enough to turn away, you know, ten thousand people who’ve logged onto their site and shown an interest. They’d probably do something like a cut-off, anyone who’s logged on for longer than ten minutes, get their details and you know, whatever
LM: What about when they ask you, cause a lot of websites, not the ones we’ve visited, but a lot of websites will ask you for information, some of it will be optional 
AL:  Have you seen that you’ve got (…), you have to register with most of the sites, or I don’t know if it’s all the sites, but there’s a lot of sites that I’ve been onto
LM: Yeah you’re right, a lot of them 
AL:  that you have to register. And you have to give your information and details otherwise you can’t go any further, so the first thing is go well, oh alright then, and you register
LM: And do you tend to be honest? I mean, do you 
AL:  Yes, because I haven’t thought, it’s only tonight that I’ve actually started thinking and dwelling over how much information I’m quite happily, you know, entering in that, as you’re saying, I hadn’t realised about cookies either, I didn’t realise there was a way they could sort of, ooh, there you go
LM: I’m just thinking how sort of (2.0) do you think that they can do anything, that they’ve got any kind of power over you with that information. If for example, they know your age and your gender and that you live in London and they’ve got a rough idea of how much you earn and they know, you know, what sort of money you’ve spent where. How much do you think they can do with that information?
(3.5)
AL: I suppose well, they will categorise you won’t they? LM: Mm
AL: I mean, we’re not talking that they will look through individual. You will fit into this, this, I mean (1.0) they’ll (1.5) you know, you’ll be categorised, oh right, you fall into this category with this, this category with that, and you will be placed in your box, your (1.5) whatever it is, and no matter what you think you will be there and you will, and it’s you know, no sort of big thing to keep it updated because it’s all done electronically now
LM: Mm
AL: It does, it’s not something, I mean from an innocent, I mean this is an innocent tool that you’ve showed us more about that we hadn’t, I mean I’d been aware of some things but not all of them. But it’s only during the course of this sort of (.) evening that other things have started to occur to me that hadn’t (1.0) occurred to me before. I think people like myself might waver on the edge, but I think there’s a hell of a lot more people who will leap in and be merrily, unfortunately you won’t be able to go around to everyone saying ‘ah well have you thought of cookies…’ do you know what I mean, and (.) I don’t think there is enough information about the full range of what could be done. I don’t think people have knowledge of this
LM: I think that’s right
AL: And I think without knowledge you can’t base an accurate decision can you?
LM: Okay
AL: So although you’re selling us a toy, not a toy a tool, on the one hand (1.0) it’s like using a very powerful hack, not hacksaw, chainsaw. If I don’t have the full knowledge then I can damage myself. That’s very simplistic um, but it’s quite like having some huge powerful tool that you don’t know how to use and so you could be literally blundering into it, I (.) But saying that, would it stop me using it [laughs]
LM: (…) you’d be just weighing up the advantages and disadvantages?
AL: Well ye:ah, well yeah (.) it’s not, it’s quite interesting isn’t it? It’s not something that, unless you sit down in this type of atmosphere where you are somebody who’s got knowledge of this, so you, you’ve pointed out things that I hadn’t realised, like cookies, I mean, that is, that I can be traced
X: (…) thought of that
AL: Hm?
LM: [to X] you don’t like the thought of that? X: No
AL: No (1.5) I mean, from the initial jumping in where oh yes, this looks really fun, but then when you do start to think, I mean, I hope I haven’t burst your bubble on all the, how much fun the shopping thing was 
LM:  Oh no, I mean I’m trying to retain a healthy ambivalence about it all [laughs]. I mean I’m just interested in 
AL:  But then again I think I’m a bit of crackpot so 
LM: [laughs]
AL: No seriously, I have all these sort of weird notions going on in my head, where I think personally, I, I mean going back, I know I’ve been over this ground, but the CCTV thing, that concerns me. I can weigh up the pros and cons, I do understand the arguments for and against it, er for it, but I think there must be arguments that must start being put forward against it, because I do think it’s an invasion of an individual’s right, and I think we all ought to be concerned about that, and I think George Orwell’s day has dawned, and I think it’s scary. I mean, how soon will it be that CCTVs start appearing on every street corner? Not just in main shopping areas and save the police actually having to go out and patrol areas, it will be (1.0) you know (.) you know it but, it’s quite in theory that it could happen. And it’s just one of those things that’s a sort of sudden, not sudden, been a gradual, I mean I’ve not been that happy with it. And this, this reinforces it for me, that at first you’re thinking, oh this is fun, this is (.) I think there is a lot more to this. Yes, I’d quite happily be playing on this without giving it too much thought, but then suddenly you do start to realise that there’s other implications on this. Hm
LM: Okay
AL: (…)
LM: Okay that’s great.  I guess we should stop because the tape’s just about to run out



Ut27

User trial 27, ABC1 cohabiting couple 36-55, no kids, Low IT, 29.06.99.

LM: Okay so I work at UCL and I’m doing some research with one of the lecturers there which is about electronic commerce, which is like shopping on the Internet (.)
KF: Oh right
LM: So I’ve been interviewing people about what they’ve heard about it, what they know about computers, you know, what they think about computers, quite general stuff. So we’re going to look at some Internet shopping sites (.) in a bit, but I just wanted to know really (.) a bit more about 
KF:  My background on computers
LM: Yeah
KF: Nil really. It’s just the computers I have to use at work. They’re, they’re tills really, sell duty free which (.) isn’t going to be sold shortly so um (2.0) I mean I just upload it at the beginning of the flight, set up seven satellites for the other crew (.) they (.) input all their information and then I download it at the end of the flight, I get the printout (.)
LM: Mm
KF: What’s been sold during that flight and that’s it
LM: Right, okay
KF: Um it’s not connected to anything anywhere else, it’s just a (.) [coughs] the whole thing that’s the whole thing complete then, and it’s just like um (.) produces a till roll and that’s it (1.0) cash transactions, cheque transactions, that’s sort of thing
LM: Okay
KF: As for this sort of thing, I don’t have any (2.0) I mean we don’t have any computer here or anything like that
LM: Right okay (1.0) And how long have you been using the work
KF: The work one has come in about five years ago and as I say it’s just being updated from the first of, the new one coming in
LM: What’s the new one going to be like 
KF:  um just sort of 
LM:  a bit more?
KF: Yeah (.) well I don’t know, I’m frightened of it to be honest
LM: [laughs]
KF: Well they trained us on it four months ago and then suddenly it’s going to be there for us to work (.) and I know there’s going to be millions of problems and (1.5) what are they called, ‘Basil’ is it, ‘Basil’? And the other ones were (…) and now ‘Basil’ is this one
LM: Right
KF: It’s a, I think it’s an airline thing, I don’t think it’s anything to do with the rest of the 
LM:  sounds like a special sort of 
KF:  Yeah it seems to be, they seem to be just in airline (.) they’re probably um (.) deleted or something (.) someone’s selling them off cheap cause they found they’re no good and Britannia’s bought them all up so (.) we’re going to use them anyway [coughs]. But um as for this type of thing I don’t really have any, I used to, years ago I used to work in an office I used to type, so I know, I roughly know the key, the, the order of the letters on the keypad but um (.) I don’t know it was about ten years ago now. I think actually (.) (…) much more input on this because he works with it at work
LM: Yeah, what does he do?
KF: He’s a recruitment consultant
LM: Right okay
KF: He does, yeah he uses um (1.0) computers and stuff or (.) I don’t know they have access to a computer at work or something, I don’t know (.) which um (1.0) to print out the letters and things which (.) I don’t do anything, I don’t do any office work anymore so I’m a bit 
LM:  Sure
KF: I’m very much removed. The most I’ve got is an ansaphone
LM: [laughs] (.) So when you worked in an office did you use a word processor, I mean 
KF:  No, no 
LM:  were you using computers 
KF:  No, no 
LM:  or was it 
KF:  No 
LM:  not really computerised?
KF: Um no it wasn’t computerised. I mean I’ve been (.) flying for ten years now and I didn’t work in office work for the last three years of that, so it would be thirteen years ago
LM: Yeah
KF: So yeah (.) it was a typewriter with a memory
LM: Yeah, yeah
KF: That was where I left it. There was, fax machines were just coming in (.) then. Um (.) my last company had a telex (.) that’s (.) yeah exactly
LM: [laughs]
KF: And so you can see how far removed I am. As I say (…) works in an office, he’ll be much more um (.) up to date with these things than I am certainly
LM: Okay, so um what sort of stuff have you heard about the Internet and um in particular 
KF:  Well I’ve heard that word, the ‘Internet’. I’ve heard of email (.) um (2.0) I don’t know, I don’t really understand. I don’t know, I’ve not, I don’t see it, I don’t have my (.) I don’t have any reason to come into contact with it so I don’t (.) although I do [coughs] um realise that it’s um a thing for the future and um (.) I am going to, I can’t, I don’t think I’m going to be able to ignore it forever
LM: Yeah
KF: I think I’m going to have to um, well I suppose it will probably be introduced into my ho:me by my boyfriend eventually and then I’ll um (.) get interested on it then. Now my sister’s actually got a computer, she lives in Miami, but she’s got one and um (1.0) her daughter plays like games and things on it
LM: Right
KF: And her husband’s a pilot, he uses it for, I don’t know what, not for flying but for other (.) business ventures or whatever, and she seems to, she should, they’re really into it, I don’t know if that’s an American thing or if it’s just them as individuals, but I haven’t really got into it to be honest
LM: Yeah, no um
KF: They’re very um 
LM:  the States tend to be er 
KF:  A bit ahead of the UK?
LM: Yeah
KF: Yeah
LM: And Internet access is cheaper really
KF: Cheaper than what? LM: In the states a lot of the time people don’t pay for local calls (1.5)
KF: Yeah she doesn’t, yeah she doesn’t
LM: And we do so
KF: So this is cheaper than, this is the telephone then? (1.5) Is that what you’re saying?
LM: Yeah because basically how it works is that we use the phone line and even, you know, even if we’re using a website that’s based in the States it will still only cost a local phone call
KF: Hm
LM: The rate of a local phone call (.) but that can vary from you know 1p a minute or something at the weekends to um 
KF:  If theirs is free in the States why would they want to be using it, then they’d be paying
LM: What I’m saying is that their local phone company in the States don’t charge them for 
KF:  Oh theirs is free, oh I see. All theirs is completely free then 
LM:  Yeah 
KF:  Oh I see right
LM: Whereas we pay whatever the local phone rate is depending on who provides, you know, whether it’s BT 
KF:  Mercury
LM: Or cable or what time of day it is 
KF:  Right 
LM:  you’re doing it or whatever
KF: Okay
LM: So she uses that then
(1.5)
KF: My sister does yeah
LM: Yeah
KF: Yeah, she does. Um I don’t know if she uses the Internet and the email. Think you have to be, don’t you have to be connected to one of those, or both of those or something. You can’t just get a computer and it’s got (.) you know don’t you have to get packages or something. I don’t know, I (.)
LM: No, no you do, you know, you’re right
KF: [laughs] It’s just what I hear. I hear talking and (.) this is the sort of thing, the things I hear about (1.5) and email
(1.5)
LM: Yeah what you’ve heard, I mean what’ve you heard about email
(1.0)
KF: I couldn’t 
LM:  (…) getting an idea of what people know and what they’ve heard
KF: Email you’ve got an address (.) an email address, dot com (.)
LM: Mm
KF: Cause that’s on some of the TV things that is. Um (.) I (…) I’m really dim (.) um an email address, that seems an important thing to have, I don’t know why but that seems to be (1.0) you hook up to the Internet and you get an email address, I know that much
LM: Mm
KF: Um (.) [coughs] um what you do with it when you’ve got all that I haven’t got a clue [laughs]. I suppose you must send messages (.) from one person (.) somebody else who’s on the Internet, but you get all this um (.) people that um (1.5) fallen in love with people on the Internet and things like that (.) so this must just be a (.) instead of sending letters (1.5)
LM: Yeah 
KF:  But a more direct (.) do you see faces, do you see pictures?
LM: You can do, you can send photos
KF: And you can print out as well
LM: Mm
KF: Yeah you can print out things (.) um (1.0) um (3.0) I don’t know er an email address (1.0) website (.) that’s another word
LM: Aha
(1.5)
KF: I don’t know any of this it’s just a word that I pick up from people talking (.) the website, I don’t know [coughs]
LM: So what sort of stuff have you heard that you can do on the Net, what kind of information is there (.)
(1.0)
KF: Well you said about shopping, I did know that there was a shopping (.) thing that you could do your shopping on the Internet
LM: Mm
KF: You can find (.) other (.) people on the Internet. Presumably, I don’t know I suppose a lot of it’s to do with business
LM: Hm
KF: Things that I wouldn’t know anything about. I don’t know (1.5) sending (.) letters out, or rather than sending letters you just (.) is it instead of making phone calls and sending letters? (.) Yeah, because the print out that would be the letter, so you can print it presumably and then that’s the letter (.) but then the messages are the telephone calls maybe (1.5) so they just sit at this all day and it does everything and you don’t have to send letters, you don’t have to (.) make phone calls, so you just sit doing that all day
(1.5)
LM: Yeah (.) and business yeah. It’s used a lot in business
KF: I see it a lot in, well ‘I see it’, I see it as being a business thing (.) and educational as well, seem to be [coughs] for children, you buy these packages and put them on and (.) and learning at um (.) I suppose they’ve got um, yeah my sister went out and bought some of these er (.) packs
LM: Hm
KF: You get them for different ages and I suppose if they’re going through school (.) they’re at a certain, they’re on a certain syllabus or certain thing that they’re learning and they can do it all through this rather than how we used to do it with a pen and paper and write it all and go to the library
LM: Hm
KF: And look up information and, through text er through books, reading, there’s not so much of (.) you just look it all up on presumably there’s some sort of um, that must be a website then (.) that you look it all up on
LM: Mm hm
KF: And you buy the package which is, and that makes it a website or something, I don’t know (.)
LM: Do you know how you find information on the Internet
KF: No
LM: What you do (.) basically you can run a search where you can type in what you’re looking for like I don’t know 
KF:  Algebra for instance
LM: Yeah (.) and it would come up with a list of everything it can find across the whole internet about algebra (1.5) and so you can then (.)
KF: Pick what thing you want about (…) so that it’s for schoolchildren, fifteen year olds or whatever that (.) just coming up for exams they can actually go all the way, they can learn (2.0) through, through that sort of package (.) and that will make it easier for their exams then, easier than going down the library and trying to (.) and getting all your books out and swotting through maybe (2.0) But yeah, I know it’s a thing that sort of (.) teenagers are into
(2.0)
LM: So what about the shopping side of it? What, what had you heard about shopping on the Internet
KF: I don’t know, I just know you can shop on it
LM: Mm
KF: Er presumably, I don’t know, is it are there companies in there, Safeways, Sainsbury’s I don’t know
LM: Mm
KF: Tesco’s
LM: Yeah
KF: [coughs] I suppose you go there and you say you want some tomatoes and some mushrooms and some whatever (.) How do you get it to your house then? You don’t get it there as well. Do they send it? LM: Yeah they deliver it
KF: I don’t know how expensive it is, I don’t know (.)
LM: All right, well let’s 
KF:  I don’t know anything
LM: I’ll show (…) is there a phone point in here, I’ve got an extension lead if not
KF: There is a phone (4.0) it’s a pretty dodgy socket but I’m sure that will (2.0) have done it, yeah that’s the same
LM: (…)
KF: (…) As I say, he’ll be able to pick it up much quicker than me cause he’s had some of these things at work (1.0) I have access to some of these but (…) Is that it?
LM: Yeah that’s great I think (.) do you know whether he has access to the Internet
KF: I don’t actually
(10.0)
KF: This is just food shopping, not clothes shopping?
LM: Er no, we can do that too hopefully
KF: Can you go up in the changing rooms and see if it fits you?
LM: No 
KF: [laughs]
LM:  that’s one of the things you can’t do yet (.) they’re thinking about ways to get around those sorts of problems 
KF:  what your shape, exact measurements?
LM: Yeah
(2.0)
KF: He’s here (…)
(31.0)
KF: He’s drenched, he’s just taking his jacket off
LM: Oh that’s fine, no hurry
(6.0)
MF: I’m sorry about this (.)
(12.0)
KF: So how long have you, are you just on this project? 
LM: Yeah, we 
KF:  how long have you been doing this project for?
LM: About a year and a half
KF: Oh my god aren’t you bored of it?
LM: [laughs] a bit sometimes [laughs] but it’s quite interesting sort of like you know, seeing what people kind of know and what sort of different ideas they have about what it’s going to be like 
KF:  Oh no I bet I’m the thickest
LM: Not at all, not at all. I mean really like when I started a year and a half ago, like nobody had heard of it
KF: Yeah
LM: They’d not even heard anything on TV cause there was never anything on TV about it (.) now you know, most people are like ‘I’ve heard of it’ you know
KF: Yeah (.) that’s about as far as I get, I’ve heard of it
(2.0)
MF: Right
LM: Hiya
MF: I’m sorry about this
LM: No it’s fine don’t worry about it
KF: (…)
MF: (…) 
KF: We just put the phone line in (…) I’ve got your glass, it should be (1.5)
MF: Sorry what I want is (…)
KF: (…)
(15.0)
MF: Don’t stop for me (.) or have you been waiting to start 
KF:  We’re waiting for you
(.)
MF: Oh I see, oh sorry
KF: [laughs] It’s just a background, I’ve just given a background of me really. I don’t know (.) quite what you’ve got at work dear
MF: What?
KF: I know you’ve, you, you do, you work with computers, you’ve got something with computers at work, but I don’t quite know exactly what you’ve got so I didn’t 
MF:  Oh I see right
(1.0)
KF: [laughs]
LM: I’m Liz, by the way
MF: Hi Liz I’m Mervyn
KF: Karen
LM: Yeah sorry I didn’t know your first name
KF: [laughs]
MF: Right (.) apologies for this
LM: No it can’t be helped
MF: Well there’s been a power failure to do with the rain at East Croydon I have to come from Croydon
LM: Oh right
MF: And so some of the trains can’t stop, there’s no announcements there’s no clocks, they can’t tell you, they’re having to route them into different platforms and they can’t tell you what platforms they’re going to go into
LM: [laughs] Right that’s a pain isn’t it
MF: And you don’t know where they’re going, because I was at a different time, so I don’t actually know the times at half past five, so (…)
LM: Okay (.)
AF: (…) Internet
LM: Yeah er 
MF:  Oh yeah 
LM: What I’m doing is 
MF:  I’ve heard of that [laughs]
KF: [laughs]
LM: I’m doing some research on Internet commerce
MF: Oh yeah
LM: (.) and I’ve just been finding out, trying to find out what you both know about computers, whether you both use them at work (1.0) what you know about the Internet
MF: Okay (.) I (.) yes I do have to use a computer at work it’s just I work in recruitment but there’s only two of us (.) who run our own business
LM: Right
MF: And we have basically, I suppose a basic er word processor with um whatever the I don’t even know, the Microsoft Word97 on it or whatever
LM: Mm
MF: Um and we just really use it for letters, fax headers, type CVs (.) um store a database of like people’s names and addresses and contact numbers and things
LM: Sure
MF: U::m (.) I know bits and pieces about the Internet, though I always thought it was something that um (.) you know I’d be too old to worry about it before it became an everyday thing, but it seems to be more and more, a lot of the clients that I deal with um (.) recruit in technology and finance
LM: Right
MF: And they are all, you know, every other day another client says to me, you know um ‘Well just email it to me’. I say well I can’t, I wouldn’t know how to, we don’t have that
LM: Yeah
MF: Or they’ll say, if I want information on a company, then ‘look it up on our website’ (…) say well I can’t do that either
LM: Yeah
MF: Um (.) so it seems to be coming into it more and more
LM: Right
MF: Um (.) um I couldn’t tell you how the Internet works (1.0) I know that there’s various names of people you log in from cause I see their adverts. I know there’s a Yahoo! cause they’re on an advert with a British Airways jumbo, er I know Demon cause they sponsor Fulham Football Club
LM: Right
MF: I know there’s an American one I think it’s A-L-O or AOL
LM: Mm hm that’s it
MF: Er but everybody says don’t use them because all America uses it and (.) once America switches on their computers in the middle of our day you can’t actually get onto it or something
LM: Yeah
MF: Er and I know there’s this new one that’s floating I was reading Free, Freeserve which I think is to do with Dixons or something
LM: Yeah, that’s it
MF: It’s just I mean things I pick up from scanning the paper
LM: Sure (.) okay
(1.0)
KF: He knows more than me [laughs]
MF: [laughs] I, I work at the cutting edge of technology [laughs]. As I always say to people when they say about email, I say ‘look I started in this business before fax machines were even widely 
KF:  that’s what we were just talking about [laughs] that’s when I left office work 
MF:  You could phone up (.)
KF: Telex
MF: You used to make an appointment and post the CVs (.) and if it was a bit of a race against another agency you used to have to jump (.) on the tube and start hand delivering them to receptions and things
KF: Wouldn’t you put it on a bike now
MF: Well or then you’d put it on bikes but that got very expensive (…)
LM: Okay (.) and have you heard anything about shopping on the Internet, which is what I’m (.)
MF: I’ve heard of it I can’t say it’s something I’d like to do but I 
KF:  Do you get everything out of date? (.) That’s what I always think about these things
LM: I haven’t food shopped on the Internet yet so I don’t actually know, but what I’ve heard is that it’s sort of fairly reliable
KF: You know cause I always dig to the back of the shelf
(1.5)
MF: I suppose I 
KF:  them things in the front are dated like I don’t know 29th of June (.) or 30th of June
LM: Hm
KF: I want the 6th of July that are at the back
LM: [laughs] taking all the houmous out or 
KF:  Yeah, so I completely just [coughs] but that’s one thing that I think with, and also a lot when you go there, special offers and things (.) buy one get one free or something like that (.) if you’re just looking for, I don’t know, mincemeat or chicken breast or something and you just want four skinless chicken breasts for example
LM: Yeah
KF: You’re just going to get four skinless chicken breasts, no matter if you bought the pack of six you might get (.) you know I don’t know fifty percent off or (.) I don’t know, special offers
LM: Mm
KF: Does that all come up on the Internet, or does it just they all end up confusing
LM: Again like I say I haven’t bought groceries myself but 
MF:  I know (.) I mean I don’t actually think of groceries I mean I think of (.) 
KF:  Clothes 
MF:  Like most people I know who buy things on the Internet seems to be like books, CDs (.) flights (.) and things like that. I mean I (.) for a man I’m unusual, I don’t mind shopping (.) I mean I can’t imagine buying things or buying things without actually going, I mean I’m not really someone who would buy from a catalogue either
KF: No I’m not a catalogue person 
MF:  Occasionally in Argos if it’s something like a toaster you can’t go wrong type of thing
LM: Yeah
MF: But normally I want to feel it, touch it, see it make a choice myself
LM: Yeah
MF: Er, but physically
LM: Yeah
MF: But also you don’t know what you’re going to get (.) you know I mean people, flights I don’t know, I mean I’ve heard of people booking holidays through the Internet (…) I don’t know how you actually do that (.) um you’ve got, I mean I know that (.) friends of my sister and brother-in-law bought tickets for a concert
LM: Yeah
MF: Over the Internet (.) and I happened to see them and I said ‘well where are you sitting, it’s at Wembley’, ‘oh I don’t know, they haven’t sent them to us yet’. Well I can’t (.) conceive of, of buying a ticket 
KF:  buying a ticket when you don’t know where you’re sitting 
MF:  I’d have to ring up Wembley with the little map they once sent me of where every block is and if it’s too far back I won’t buy the tickets
LM: Yeah, yeah
MF: (…) so then, to just buy them and get them a week before the concert and find you’re right at the back of the hall
LM: Yeah
(.)
MF: And also I think you have to give your credit card number and things 
LM:  Aha 
MF:  which I think’s a bit risky (.) cause you don’t know who else can get the information, I don’t know it just seems a bit (…) me anyway
LM: So what are your sort of normal shopping habits like then? You both (.) sort of quite you don’t, you know 
KF:  Go to the shop 
LM:  you like shopping
KF: Well no, not really
LM: You don’t? You don’t mind 
MF:  I like, I don’t mind shopping actually, which is unusual
(1.5)
KF: I prefer shopping in America to here (.) but um (.) 
LM:  (…) shop globally do you
KF: Yeah I do, yeah. Um (.) yeah more (.) [coughs] actually it’s only here and America, I (…) I mean yeah there’s Thailand and places like that where you get the fakes and all that sort of thing but, apart from that and there’s gold in in er (.) Abu Dhabi places like that, but apart from that (.) we go to a lot of places where you wouldn’t be, you wouldn’t be interested in shopping (.)
LM: Hm
KF: But here I just really do food shopping (.) we go browsing yeah
MF: Yeah I suppose I get more, I mean you 
KF:  You buy more here than I do 
MF:  Your hobbies are not, you know I mean 
KF:  gardening (.) I go to Sainsbury’s Homebase
MF: Yeah I mean I’m the one that buys CDs, videos 
KF:  Yeah see I don’t buy any of those sorts of things 
MF:  (…) buy quite a few of your clothes abroad
KF: I buy a lot, I’d say a good seventy five percent of my clothes abroad (.) and I buy stuff for you abroad as well (.) but I’d say most of my shopping in the UK is food shopping yeah (.) and household, you know, anything that Sainsbury’s, you know Tesco’s, Safeway’s that sort of shopping and (.) Homebase, all the house, housey things, gardening things
LM: Yeah
KF: Is me. I mean I’m not saying I never buy here (.) I bought a pair of trousers at the weekend but you know, it’s not unheard of that I buy, that I don’t buy things in um England but um (.) yeah the majority I don’t bother too much with [coughs]
LM: Okay (.) and so in terms of things like CDs and kind of you know media stuff like (.) you know (.) equipment
MF: My department
LM: Where, I mean (.) you were saying about people buying CDs on the Internet, what have you heard about that (.) and how do you imagine that being, what do you imagine that being like?
MF: (.) Um I should imagine (2.0) well no I mean my, my er (.) sister and brother-in-law have a home computer, my nephew’s fifteen and they are on the Internet and I think I’ve once seen them, I said show me and he’s clicking and the page changes while I’m still looking at it, but I’ve seen like a flashing advert ‘CDs 9.99’ but I presume that it, it’s like you get into a page or whatever and there’s a whole list of them, a bit like mail order you’ll get in the back of music magazines
LM: Mm hm
MF: Um and you just choose the ones you want, I mean I assume (.) tha::t (.) I would assume that the people who buy are the kind of people who buy half a dozen CDs a year (.) you know, they’re not, you know music is a main hobby of me, I, I couldn’t, I couldn’t buy like that, I have to be down at HMV or Virgin on a Monday when it’s released
LM: Hm
MF: And buy it, I couldn’t sort of wait and think oh I haven’t bought a CD for months I’ll get half a dozen
LM: Yeah
MF: ‘The Corrs oh they’re supposed to be good, I’ll get that’
LM: Yeah
MF: You know ‘I’ve heard of them yeah they were number one last week I’ll get that’ (…)
LM: Yeah okay
MF: I mean I don’t know what it’s like, if there was a way that I could, I hear adverts on Capital Radio about you can buy this CD one pound less through (.) Capital website 
LM:  Yeah I’ve heard that (…) 
MF:  but I assume that that would be something that I would just click a few buttons, give a credit card and (.) twenty eight days later it arrives at my home
KF: Twenty eight days?
MF: Or however many (.) I mean most, well that’s catalogue times (…)
KF: I thought this was up-to-date equipment, I thought it would be there on your doorstep the (.) moment you 
MF:  I don’t know, I don’t know I’m assuming, I don’t know I’m assuming it’s like catalogue or something and mail order or (.) I mean yeah I suppose you know, if it could, if it was delivered to me the next morning then it might be slightly more interesting
LM: Hm
KF: Twenty eight days? I wouldn’t even consider it twenty eight days
MF: I don’t know, I don’t know I’m guessing
LM: Okay well let’s have a look at some sites, actually. Maybe a CD site’s not a bad one to start with
MF: Hm hm (.) Here, here’s where I’m proved wrong
LM: We:ll you know, you’re not wrong about the delivery, I mean it has to get to you, and how long it takes to get to you depends on 
MF:  Well it’s like Britannia Music Club and thing, I mean my, my brother-in-law I know buys through them cause he’s a like six, six a year man
LM: Mm
MF: And um (.) yeah I know he just gets things through from Britannia Music Club and he just ticks off four and posts it off with his credit card number and (…)
KF: Who’s that (…)?
MF: Yeah
KF: Oh right. Also I get you some from America again
MF: Well only if I know, because I know they’re going to be a bit cheaper
KF: Also some (.) yeah some are there and not here aren’t they?
MF: Canada’s better
KF: [laughs] Yeah CDs how much are they? Six pounds? Five pounds?
MF: Five pounds sixty
KF: For a CD
MF: If you go into a 
KF:  Don’t go that often though 
MF:  HMV in Canada (.) cause here they’re like thirteen pound ninety-nine, if you go to HMV in Canada they’re thirteen dollars ninety-nine, which works out at about five pounds sixty
LM: Yeah
MF: For the same thing
(6.0)
MF: [laughs] Not that I go to Canada (…) 
KF:  Yeah once you been there 
MF:  I’ve been once
KF: America’s 
MF:  I’m an expert now
KF: America’s more frequent isn’t it, so (.)
LM: Right okay, so 
MF:  CompuServe yeah I’ve heard of that as well so
KF: I’ve heard of that word
(1.5)
LM: Well they’re a sort of Service Provider, so they (.) basically we pay them a monthly fee of I’m not sure how much it is (2.0) between five and ten pounds and 
MF:  This is all linked in from here?
LM: Mm hm
KF: Yeah it’s on our phone
(.)
LM: This is, the modem is in there, it’s a little one
MF: Oh (…) (.) I’m too old for this (…) old people’s retirement village somewhere I can go (…) where the baker’s boy delivers your bread for you and things
KF: [coughs]
MF: On a little cycle with a basket
(2.0)
KF: Well if you’re behind what am I?
MF: [laughs] Okay
LM: Alright
KF: Marks and Spencers there, Sainsbury’s, Tesco’s, Body Shop
LM: Hm
KF: Carworld can you buy a car?
LM: You can buy cars on the Internet (.) Right CDNow that’s the one I (.) had in mind. This is a big Internet-only CD store based in the States (.) um (1.5)
KF: [to MF] Do you want to sit here dear? Do you want your glasses on
MF: No they’re in (…) Actually I might get them
KF: [laughs] I have to tell him now, he’s getting so old he’s like 
MF:  Oh shut up
KF: [laughs]
(8.0)
LM: Okay so this sort of bit around the side is like the browser, this is the thing that you get wherever you go on the Internet you’ve got your CompuServe bar across here which will kind of help you direct yourself, we’ve got a little time thing here showing us how long we’ve been on
KF: Oh right
LM: So we can keep a track of the time. Um (.) and all of these things, this is like the address of the site, so they all start pretty much like this (…)
MF: And you have to remember all of that?
LM: Well the computer will store all this sort of information for us, these are the last few ones I’ve been to, Hotmail (…) 101cd is another CD store
KF: How come they’re all CD stores you’ve just looked down
LM: No, no those are just the things I’ve been doing on the computer recently, but that will trace all the things you’ve been to and where I’ve just, that list I was just looking at was a list of all the things I’ve typed in and I’ve bookmarked, like every time I’ve been to a site that I thought was interesting
KF: Right
LM: Or I’d want to show people I’ve put this little electronic bookmark in it and then I can call it back again (.) so do you want to have a (.) 
KF:  I don’t
LM: Play around with this
KF: [to MF] You can. I don’t have a clue what I’m supposed to do
LM: Well if you just 
KF:  An alternative
LM: If you think of something you’d want to find
MF: (…) so how do I?
LM: It’s the left hand, it’s like the kind of normal mouse
MF: Oh okay
KF: That’s where we were before, oh no
LM: Yeah it’s got the same top thing 
KF:  Yeah 
LM:  where it’s got a permanent search facility here, so no matter where you are on what website you can search for something else (.) and if you use this, you know like a normal kind of word processing package you can scroll down to see further down
MF: Right
(2.0)
MF: (…) what do I, how do I scroll down?
LM: Use the left hand bottom (…)
MF: Right
KF: (…) Blur
MF: (…) It says ‘list add to cart’ what does that mean?
LM: That’s if you want to buy something
MF: Oh er so that is showing you your (.) discount
LM: Well it shows you what you’ve bought so far, yeah if you yeah ‘list’ is the recommended price and that’s how much it would actually cost you (.) if you go back up to the top you could probably, the mouse is just a bit fiddly (.) you could just point onto the arrow and click it, that would do it
MF: That’s going to bring me up is it?
LM: Mm hm and that would bring you down (.) If you try I mean, is there something you want (.) a kind of something you’re looking for or (.) you’re going to buy
MF: So it’s eleven dollars eighty eight (1.5) right there 
KF:  Oh it’s in dollars
MF: So that’s, that’s in fact eleven pound ninety-nine here that
KF: That’s eight pounds
MF: Yeah but the thing is I went out and bought that the day it was out (.) but presumably it was there the day it was out, was it?
LM: Well I mean Pavement are American aren’t they so 
MF:  Yeah, no 
LM:  Might have been out 
MF:  More popular here I think [laughs] than they are over there, but (.) Okay so is there somewhere with like whole list of them, or (.)
LM: Well basically it’s a searching, it’s a similar sort of way than you’d actually do it in the store, it’s you think of what you want, you go to the letter of the alphabet in the section (.)
MF: Yeah
LM: You know so say you’re like ‘I want the new Pavement album’ you’d go to kind of (.) ‘rock’ and you’d go to P
MF: So you’ve got, you can’t really browse like in a shop, you’ve got to know the bands you want to look up
LM: Well you can browse to the extent that, where we came in, that last page has got, it’s kind of like promotional features, you know 
MF:  Yeah
LM: It’s kind of like your entry into the store
MF: Oh right so if I, what you mean like here are artists, so if I put in an artist
LM: Yeah if you click on that one there in here (1.5) yeah just click there again, and then you type the artist’s name then 
MF:  Right, so (.) um who shall I do?
LM: And it pretty much should come up with everything they’ve got by that artist
KF: Go on be obscure
MF: (…)
LM: Yeah no be obscure, see what it’s like
KF: Yeah (…)
(8.0)
KF: Oh that’s obscure
MF: Not really 
KF:  Oh super, super fury 
MF:  Super Furry Animals
KF: Oh you don’t put a gap between 
MF:  Do I just hit that?
LM: If you 
MF:  Oh I don’t know I didn’t put gaps
LM: See if it finds it with the gaps, or without the gaps rather
(3.0)
LM: Yeah it’s identified the artist okay
(1.0)
MF: Ah right here you go (2.0) 
LM: There again you can scroll down here to see all 
KF: I need to go to night school
LM: And anything that’s underlined you can click on basically
MF: Right
LM: Right so is this a, have they got an album coming out soon then?
MF: No that was released about four weeks ago but 
KF: [laughs]
MF: That’s the one. Perhaps I should have put in something that isn’t yet out
KF: Do you know how 
MF:  Do I know what?
KF: How do you know if it’s not yet out, or just reading about things um
MF: Yeah
LM: If you go to that you can um, if you click on that where there’s a little sound symbol I means you can hear an extract from it 
MF:  Oh
KF: [laughs]
LM: So
KF: [laughs]
MF: Sounds interesting
(8.0)
LM: And if you scroll down here
(4.0)
MF: Oh right you choose the track
LM: Yeah (…) click on whatever you (3.0) (…) turn up the volume
[music]
LM: So we’ve only got a mono [laughs] speaker on 
MF:  Not as good as that CD player (…) Does it play the whole thing or just
LM: No it’s just sound clips here because basically it’s just trying to 
MF:  Ah
LM: This is trying to sell it to you rather than 
KF:  That’s it
LM: There are sites where you can download 
KF:  That’s the bit you hear
MF: (…) let me see, see if I can get this right (.) oh yes
LM: Yeah? Perfect
MF: So ‘if you like this album…’ (…) ‘I own this already’. Well I do, so let’s see what it recommends, oh I didn’t actually click anything
LM: Oh (3.0) Right okay this is another feature of this 
MF:  Well no I wanted that, ‘I own this already’ and it recommends you other things 
(2.0)
LM: Okay let’s see what else it recommends (.) Basically you can set up an account here 
MF:  Ah ha ah yeah
LM: If you just go to ‘album advisor’
MF: Yeah it says ‘I own this already’
KF: [coughs] Oh dear
MF: Oh I see it means own it already therefore I’m not interested
KF: Yeah
LM: Well what it is is that if you 
MF:  Ah sorry
LM: You can register on the site, I have an account with CDNow for example
MF: Oh yeah
LM: Where what it wants to do is build a profile of my taste in music so it can sell things to me that it thinks I’d like, so if I see things, if it comes up with things that I’ve already got then I can tell them that I’ve got it already 
MF: Hm
LM: So a it knows not to market it to me in future and b it you know, gets another insight into what sort of music I’m into 
KF:  Yeah yeah yeah
MF: Oh right, right
LM: And slowly it builds up, so if I, what I’ll try and do is I’ll log in to my account and give a, show you what 
KF: Music profile
MF: Now we’re getting to see what you like
LM: [laughs] Yeah (1.0) but also how that sort of thing, how that kind of album advisor things works
MF: Right
(8.0)
LM: They’re probably quite confused that I like Super Furry Animals
MF: Oh I see right
LM: [laughs] So now it says I own this
MF: Oh I’m sorry, I’ve ruined your um
LM: No that’s [laughs]
MF: You wait I’ll ruin it more in a minute
LM: [laughs]
MF: (…) is only the first, we then move on to Hip Hop
LM: Oh no well you’ll find a few of them in there
MF: Oh right (…)
LM: But I’ll show you see, you have this kind of option to go to my personal bit of CDNow, where is it, there we go (.) order history, so I don’t know what the last thing I ordered was (.)
MF: It was a long time ago
LM: Again it’s a 
MF:  (…) someone who buys like one every week, you haven’t bought one since March [laughs]
LM: There so that was my order last time
MF: Ella Fitzgerald, Stevie Wonder, Bob Marley 
KF:  (…)
MF: And Mos Def
LM: Bit retro (.) and I mean I could go back to the order before that and the order before that if I wanted to
MF: (…) no, no you know (.) I thought it was you making that clicking noise before
LM: [laughs]
MF: I thought you were going (…)
(2.0)
KF: [coughs]
(1.0)
MF: So it would (.)
LM: And it’s got my ‘wish list’ as well, which is you can save the things that you want to buy, which is quite handy on something like this which if I bought them one at a time I’d pay post and packing every time I bought something, if I buy five I sort of pay one lot of 
MF:  (…) I mean Missy Elliott’s out this week you can go into any shop now and buy it
LM: I know, but, yeah well
MF: That’s not you? LM: No I mean I 
MF:  Isn’t that more like
LM: (…) buy it for twelve dollars I suppose
MF: Oh I see cause you’re getting it (.) so this is your wish, wish list
LM: Yeah, so next time I buy from them I’ll pick five (.) probably
MF: Oh right
LM: (…) you can go to (…)
MF: Oh well I can lend you Beta Band, Hole and Jeru The Damaja if you like
LM: [laughs]
KF: [laughs]
LM: And so on and so on and so on
MF: (…) oh and Roots Manuva as well oh god
KF: (…) you don’t want for that long you just 
MF:  You see no that, that’s that’s that’s it my wish list would be all bought
KF: It’s there [points to stereo] up there
MF: No it wouldn’t be, I haven’t got the money or the time to listen to everything I would want to (.)
LM: But you can see how it would work and 
MF:  Yes
LM: When you buy it you can tell them what you think of it, or if they try and market, if they recommend (…)
MF: I mean I don’t know what ‘Temple of the Dog’ is [laughs]
LM: But it will recommend you know and it will keep on recommending things, the more I buy, the more I search for Super Furry Animals albums, the more I look at different things, the more it will think it knows about me
MF: Oh right (.) so they’re recommending you that ‘Recorded at London 
LM:  Eddie Vedder?
MF: Oh, oh Eddie Vedder (.) that’s er Pearl, Pearl Jam. Ah that must have been originally, it says recorded 1990, that must have been his first band or something, they obviously think you sound like a Pearl Jam person
LM: [laughs] A retro one as well (.) well exactly 
MF:  Well it, it flows on obviously from Ella Fitzgerald [laughs]
LM: [laughs] (…) Sainsbury’s
MF: (…)
KF: (…) joke, this is like another planet to me (1.0) I know, I know Bob Marley (1.0) UB40, that’s about it (.) Simply Red
MF: So you will pay the American price?
LM: Yeah
MF: And how long does 
LM:  And you’ll pay post and packing 
MF:  it take for you to get it?
LM: Well I’ve bought it where it’s taken four weeks, and I’ve bought it where I paid a few dollars extra and it’s taken a week and a half
MF: So it’s coming from America?
LM: It’s coming from a warehouse somewhere 
MF:  And how do you pay, you’ve got to key in a credit card number or
LM: Mm hm (2.0) yeah and I mean (…) depends on
MF: Oh Karen, you couldn’t get your credit card whilst we here, I’ll make an order
LM: [laughs]
KF: No (…)
LM: But I mean so what I 
MF:  Oh ‘CDNow prefers Visa’ (.) why would that be?
LM: I don’t know
MF: ‘Today’s Picks’ (.) it’s changed its order (…) Go into hip hop then, let me look at some more
LM: Well here (.) you can do it yourself
MF: Oh sorry (.) we should have sat around the table for this
(.)
KF: I’ve done some more now
MF: Well Liz will think we’re just greedy
LM: (…) [laughs]
KF: Want another beer Mervyn?
MF: I um yeah, I suppose I’ll be getting there in a minute. Sorry I was a bit, after witnessing my er, assault, I’ve never seen anything like that first hand
LM: It sounded awful
MF: (…)
LM: (…)
MF: Right okay (.) that’s interesting because that’s brand new (.) that’s only out this week
LM: But that’s been on there for, it’s quite a few weeks (.) ago that I put that here
MF: Ah it might have been released, ah it might have been released in America a few weeks ago yes (.) whereas that has been available over here for about a month
LM: Oh what’s that
MF: ‘Sound Bombing’
LM: Hm right 
MF:  That’s the Rawkus label they had one out late last year and this is the (.) follow up (.) Right (.) okay (.) so I can put (…) [end of tape]
LM: Right

MF: Right
LM: And then if you click down it should give you a (2.0) hm
MF: Oh right it’s a, oh right every, oh it’s like right, right, it’s (.)
LM: Gives you as many matches
MF: Right it’s meant to be 
LM:  So presumably it’s that one you want
MF: Yeah Gang Starr, that’s the one I put in first, okay, well this (.) this isn’t out yet it might be out in America, I don’t know, that’s why I thought, I’ve chosen one I know’s coming out in a couple of months time, which is a greatest hits thing (.) Oh there ‘expected release date July 13’ (2.0) right I see, so that’s twenty two, so that would infer that it’s a double which is probably what it will be 
(2.0)
LM: So presumably you can (.) pay 
MF:  You can order that
LM: You can order it and they’ll send it as soon as it comes in
MF: New…
LM: But it doesn’t look like it’s given you any
MF: Well they’re showing you CD (.) twice, tape (.) tape
LM: Hm
MF: Vinyl
KF: Do they still sell things in vinyl?
MF: Ah yeah it’s a double, that’s why
LM: But it’s not giving you any (.) excerpts from that one apparently
MF: How do you know? LM: Because none of them are underlined or in colour like the other ones were
MF: There was no hand on it. Worked out that already, you can click onto it if there’s a hand there
LM: Mm
MF: So that’s the only one they’ve given me of them, although they’ve had a load of other albums out
LM: So if you go back, if you use this little page thing, go back to (.) the page we had before
MF: Ah that’s the click click, oh right (.) ‘no search term entered’ oh I see it’s now gone on to something else
LM: Oh
MF: So now if I can just try this out of interest
LM: Yeah if you go back
MF: Now how do I (.) ah right yes here it is, sorry I’ve never used a laptop before
KF: Space is that one, I know that 
MF:  Yeah 
KF:  from er 
MF:  Alright, alright, I’ll work it out
KF: [laughs] I thought I’d tell you
MF: So if I put the space in (.) then I won’t get all the gangster things
LM: Mm (.) it should come up with just a full (.) 
MF:  Listing them
LM: And if you scroll down here (.)
MF: Oh right the moment of truth (.) ‘edited’ ‘explicit’ oh blimey I didn’t realise, I just got 
LM:  Yeah well you’re in America now 
MF:  whatever one was in the shop
LM: Yeah it’s (.)
MF: Oh that’s fourteen ninety-nine, it’s fifteen, that’s a tenner so it’s not, it’s getting more expensive, that’s twenty one, that’s fourteen
KF: Dollars
MF: (…) it would probably be a double, probably sixteen ninety-nine or something (.) Do you have to pay the tax on this?
LM: If you’re unlucky you’d have to pay import duty yeah
MF: Well why would you be unlucky?
LM: Well I mean just if it’s checked when it, when it comes through
MF: Oh right. Oh and this is all their um, their like mix albums, they get involved in other things
KF: Do you only get to pay it if you get caught?
MF: (…)
KF: I’ll remember that
MF: Okay, okay
LM: Okay well do you want to look at another site (…) 
MF:  Yeah yeah (…)
KF:  Yeah I might have a look (…) here
LM: Let’s see what else we’ve got
MF: (…) plants
KF: No
LM: Don’t know actually
KF: No (…) I like plants but (…)
MF: How about Homebase, do they have their own 
KF:  No, no do Marks and Spencer’s. Look they’ve got Marks and Spencer’s
LM: Marks and Spencer’s I’m not sure if they’re
KF: Clothes
LM: Yeah I’m not sure if you can buy anything from their site other than little bits and pieces
MF: Are they selling anything?
LM: Well: 
KF:  They’re not selling much at the moment, yeah [laughs]
LM: Well (2.5) A lot of retailers 
MF:  So how would you know
(1.5)
LM: Mm hm
(1.5)
MF: (…)
KF: Yeah
MF: You’ve got all these, so if I had this and I wanted to get here, I’ve got to already know that I’ve got to do ‘marks dash and dash spencer’ or is there (.) I don’t know I, or is there a search thing
LM: You could do that, I mean you could 
MF:  Cause if I put ‘marks and spencer’ it won’t come up will it
LM: Well if you did it through a search engine it would, and a lot of, some of them (.) they will, I mean 
MF:  So it’s just search things or
LM: Cause this name is sort of (.) patented in a way, like nobody else can operate under this name, so in some cases you’ve got to get it exactly right otherwise it won’t hit, there might, it might be that somebody else owns the right to ‘marks and spencers’ with a big curly ‘a’ 
MF: (…)
KF: Well that’s got (.) a curly bit
(.)
LM: Yeah (.) but the way it works is with Sainsbury for example you can type in ‘J Sainbury’, ‘J dash Sainbury’, ‘Sainsbury’, ‘Sainsburys’ (.) you know, um whatever name they own the rights to each of those different names 
KF:  O:::h
LM: And however you do it it will
KF: Oh right
LM: It will tunnel it to (.) 
KF:  Yeah
LM: The Sainsbury’s website
MF: Hm
KF: Let’s do ‘food and wine’
LM: Do you want to have a go?
KF: Well I don’t know how to, where’s the thing at the moment right
LM: If you use your fingers to 
KF:  Oh you’re going to just laugh at me now 
LM:  No [laughs] If you 
KF:  [to MF] Look come over here 
MF:  To the left, to the left dear
(1.0)
KF: I’m doing it, I’m doing it (.) Why isn’t it going
MF: Yes it is
KF: Why is it changing 
MF:  (…) no no no no 
KF:  No I don’t want lady’s wear 
MF:  Up one, up one, just gently up one
(.)
LM: That’s it and then you 
KF:  [to MF] Don’t shout at me
LM: Use your left hand 
KF:  I’ll shout back
MF: (…)
KF: (…) [laughs] right ‘food and wine’, ‘not so square meals for kids’ (.) No I’m not interested in them (.) Oh, oh ‘café’
MF: Hm
KF: That’s the new, the new, yeah they’re quite nice or the wines are nice (.) ‘rain and shine’ (…) Shall we go, can I got to ‘café’ now?
LM: Mm, yeah
KF: Is that what I do? (1.0) I’m going to go all over the place, look don’t laugh, what am I doing? Go down, down, down, down, down. You’ve got to stroke it (.) and I press that, which, left or right?
LM: This left hand one
(4.0)
KF: Right (2.0) that’s the olives (.) (…)
(5.0)
LM: And again if you (.) you can click on here or here to move up and down cause that’ll be more 
KF:  Right okay (.) better go over. So this isn’t at the top? I don’t want to go up there, I can’t go any higher up presumably, that’s what I thought
LM: Yeah you can’t go any higher but this sort of bar will show you that you can, you can go down the page a bit more and there’s probably more stuff (.) Ooh what’s that? KF: Have I gone too far?
MF: Did you press something?
LM: No I don’t think you did, did you? Oh god [laughs] 
KF: I got a message now (…) email address (.) Sorry
LM: Oh no, I think it did it automatically
(5.0)
KF: It’s a free lesson [laughs] in computers for me
MF: Mm
KF: This is
(5.0)
LM: Oh right so there’s not much else there actually as it turns out
KF: Oh (2.0) Is that it then?
LM: Well you can, where you move and you’ve got a hand means there’s more behind there
KF: Each of those, each of those, oh right 
MF:  (…) payment system 
KF:  So let’s do that then 
MF:  Let’s see what that is
KF: Left
LM: Mm hm
KF: [coughs] (4.0) Oh (…)
MF: Oh so are they giving you an example of a menu?
LM: Ah ha
KF: Is that it?
MF: Well we can actually buy this 
KF:  (…) buy that, I can buy ‘mixed olives and fetta cheese, one pack’ can I? (.) No? MF: Well I think you can take it down a bit further
LM: You can’t, um Marks and Spencers is (.) is someone who, they’re not actually selling (.) all their products on the Internet at the moment 
MF:  Ah (…)
LM: They’re hardly selling any
KF: So I picked a bad one
MF: Chosen a bad one, yeah you have
KF: Okay can I do another one then that’s 
LM:  Yeah I’ll find you something [laughs] (…)
KF: Find us something like (…) or (…)
LM: Yeah (.) Sainsbury’s I think
KF: Oh they’ve got ‘café specials’
MF: [laughs] I don’t think the page had changed yet
LM: No it’s just that 
KF:  Oh right [laughs] I thought oh it’s the same packaging as Marks and Spencers have got [laughs]
MF: You need something that’s voice activated so you tell it what to look for
KF: Yeah I do
LM: Mm
KF: Right now what are we doing then?
LM: Right I think the ‘home shopping’ is what we want
MF: Checking your reward card, go on while we’re here, see what you’ve got 
KF:  I haven’t got any
MF: Oh
KF: I’m a Safeways person (.) ‘Home’, ‘Food Ideas’, ‘Home Shopping’. Where’s home, where’s my thing gone then, where is it, oh hold on there she is
MF: Why’s it a ‘she’?
(2.0)
KF: Cause it’s shopping innit, there we are ‘home shopping’
MF: Who does most of the shopping around here?
(1.0)
KF: Whoa I don’t know about that (2.0) (…)
LM: Oh, does that (.) work
MF: You’ve got a choice I think there’s things underneath it ‘information and shop 
KF:  I want to buy some
MF: You need (…) to shop now (…)
LM: Let’s see how it works
MF: So probably you have to know what it is you want
LM: It might be for people who’ve already got an account I suppose
KF: Oh
(3.0)
MF: (…) open one. Charge it to Liz’s account [laughs]
KF: Right
LM: Ah now what’s going on here? ‘Tour’ let’s have a tour (.) I don’t have an account with Sainsbury’s
MF: So they’ve got a camera going down the aisles and you’re like ‘stop, stop I’ll 
KF:  Ye::ah 
MF:  have one of those’ yep
KF: Yeah like supermarket sweep
MF: [laughs] I wouldn’t know I’ve never watched it
(2.0)
LM: Right that still seems to be loading
MF: There’s something there at the bottom
KF: ‘Please click tour 
MF:  start tour button
LM: Oh well the ‘start tour’ button doesn’t appear to have (.) loaded 
KF:  appeared
LM: [laughs] Yeah
KF: It’s got ‘tour’ there’s no ‘start’ with it though
MF: She hasn’t got an account
KF: ‘Start’ is there
MF: No
LM: Oh dearie me
MF: Try Tesco’s 
KF: Yeah can we do a different one? I want to buy some eggs
[‘welcome to CompuServe’]
MF: [laughs] You did that on purpose
LM: No really I didn’t
[‘You have new mail waiting’]
LM: Oh dear
MF: Let’s read it
LM: Oh it’s not for me
MF: Who’s it for then?
LM: My boss probably
MF: Oh right I thought this was yours
KF: I bet it’s not for me
MF: Go on, check it anyway
(2.0)
LM: Right (.) oh well I wasn’t very impressed with Sainsbury’s 
KF: Or Marks and Spencer’s (…) last visit, yeah it was a visit as well
LM: Yeah let’s try Tesco 
MF:  Tesco 
LM:  actually cause Tesco sort of
KF: I’ve never walked into Sainsbury’s or Marks and Spencer’s and come out with nothing
LM: [laughs]
KF: Ever ever [laughs]
MF: Mm well let’s go in we can win a holiday
KF: Bet we don’t
MF: No her boss will win it
LM: (…) ‘Internet superstore’ yep that’s what we want
MF: Sounds
(7.0) 
LM: ‘Be our guest’ yes let’s have a look at it
KF: I’d never get this far if I was on my own doing this (.) well I don’t suppose you are, I suppose you have to [coughs]
LM: Well usually with these things when you set them up they usually send you quite a lot of (.) right
(3.0)
KF: (…) yeah that’s a bit more like it (.) oh (.) ‘not able to enter the checkout’ (.) well we don’t want the checkout anyway do we
LM: Here we go this is what Tesco what kind of initiated over here (.) was (.) instead of shopping on the Internet where obviously you’re paying for the phone call um (.) it sends you like a little CD or a disk (.) with all the information about all the products and prices and things for your local store (.) so you can just do it on a computer but you don’t have to do it on the Internet (.) so you could just do it so that you know
MF: Oh that sounds like fun
KF: Does it?
MF: Mm [laughs]
LM: So it’s just telling you here that if you like this then you can (.)
KF: Does this arrive twenty-eight days later as well?
MF: Mm [laughs] Only be twenty four days out of date [laughs]
LM: [sighs wearily]
MF: That’s true actually, cause if you go into Tesco’s there’ll be stuff that’s ‘use by tomorrow’ and stuff that’s ‘use by’ five day’s time, so how do you know they’re going to send you stuff that’s 
KF:  They won’t they’ll send you the old crap they want to get rid of, it’s obvious they’re a business
MF: Well your Mum’ll like that
KF: She won’t
MF: Key in (.) ‘send me what’s going out of date’
KF: [laughs] Yeah but she won’t want to pay the full price for it
MF: (…)
(2.0)
LM: Right okay (.) so looks like you’ve got your list of different sections down the side (.) 
MF: (…) some special offers
KF: Right let’s get some (.) veg and some fruit first (4.0) Right
MF: (…)
KF: I don’t know what I want (.) oh they’re going to tell me some more
LM: Mm
KF: Apples, other vegetables, squash, squashes, roots (…) produce (1.5) fruit and vegetables. Do I go down here somewhere (.) then? Like I want some I want some tomatoes so I’m going to go for (.)
MF: There might be some more because (…) down the bottom
KF: Oh right shall I go down then (.) well (…) what we’ve got first (.) ‘salad products’ it will be won’t it? Tomatoes (.) (3.0) Here we are there’s the chaps
MF: Do you want standard, cherry 
KF:  I’m going to get some 
MF:  specialised
KF: Actually (.) do they give you a price?
LM: Mm hm, it should come up with a price (…) show you a picture as well
KF: That’d be nice (…) have I not gone up enough?
MF: (…)
LM: Okay
KF: So is that one tomato’s thirty-nine pence or (.) is that a pound or
LM: So what I would think is, what it would normally do is it would tell you um 
MF:  Mm that looks nice doesn’t it
LM: (…) It would give you the different price in sort of imperial or metric, and you could change the amount that you wanted but obviously you would have to know what (.) you know you might want six tomatoes or you might want (.) 
KF:  Twenty six, yeah
LM: And you might not know what six tomatoes weighs
KF: Yeah
LM: So you’d have to figure those kinds of things out
MF: How about cucumbers, cause you can get a whole one or a half one or something
KF: [coughs]
(2.0)
KF: It’s a lot easier for me when it’s on these sorts of things than when it’s on CDs [laughs]. Cause all the CDs just seemed, that whole screen seemed like a mass, a mish-mash to me
MF: Mm
KF: Now cucumber portions twenty-nine, whole cucumber thirty-nine (.) an extra large cucumber fifty-nine
MF: Well we want it nice and firm we don’t want it soft and
KF: [laughs] This is the thing isn’t it, at the end of the day (.) when you’re buying food how fresh are they going to send, how fresh is it, how long does it take to get there
MF: Yeah twenty-eight days
KF: Oh twenty-eight days is no good for (.)
MF: Die of starvation waiting for it
LM: Basically the earliest you could probably get it would be the next day, unless you ordered 
KF:  Well yeah I wouldn’t expect to get it that day, yeah okay (…)
LM: I think if you order you know before ten in the 
MF:  If you order like nine ten in the morning you expect it that afternoon
KF: And what, do you get it, that’s the price, you don’t get any delivery charge or any?
LM: Yeah it’s a five pound delivery charge (.) I think on most of these things (.) most of these grocery deliveries 
MF:  It doesn’t matter what you save (.) (…)
LM: No you don’t save money you pay the regular price that you pay in your local store
KF: Yeah
LM: Um (.) you 
KF:  Plus the delivery charge
LM: Five pound delivery charge. You’d get (.) your kind of loyalty card points
KF: Yeah
LM: You’d pay by credit or debit card (.) um over the Net at the time that you place your order and (.) they tell you of special offers, you know scan your order and say ‘did you know you’ve ordered, you know, x’ 
MF: (…) special offers, can we go back to that?
LM: Mm where was that? Yeah
MF: It was on the very first page of Tesco
KF: Go on then I’m happy with the cucumber
MF: [laughs] (…)
LM: You don’t save money (.) whereas with the CDs probably the incentive to (.) buy 
MF:  Hm 
LM:  from the States is to save money 
KF:  Yeah 
LM:  Or get American 
KF:  Yeah 
LM:  artists’ stuff that’s out early. Here it’s really (.) convenience that they’re trying to get you on
MF: (…) on that CD that it could be twenty-eight days
LM: Yeah but with this I mean you (.) tell them when you want it delivered (.) and they’ll give you a time they’ll say you know between five, we’ll deliver between five-thirty and six (.) if you tell them you want it at five or six they’ll (.) give you a half hour spot
(5.0)
MF: It’s not doing anything
LM: What’s going on there (.) ooh that seems to be working (.) it’s just a bit slow there must be lots of (…)
(3.0)
MF: You see I listen, I remember somebody once saying something about a home page (.) I don’t know what that is [laughs] I thought that was about you, do I (…) it was about you
LM: Mm well I mean (.) it can be
MF: Oh right I thought it was like your personal information to store like you know
LM: Mm it can be but it’s also like in commercial stuff it’s like the front page, you know, like 
MF:  Ah right
LM: Like the first page you’d get to if you just like 
MF:  Ah this week’s special offers (1.5) Buy one get one free, that’s what we’re looking for
KF: I did loads today (.) but it’s still the sell-by-date issue isn’t there?
LM: Yeah
KF: That is an issue
LM: Yeah
KF: Cause I don’t want to receive a whole load of food tomorrow that’s in date for two days, cause I can’t eat all that food in two days, I want it some of them to be four or five days (.)
MF: Hold on a minute (.) Pepsi (.)
KF: Yeah
MF: ‘Nine for the price of six’ 
KF: Yeah
MF: Price (.) not given. Well how do you know?
LM: Well I think this is cause it’s a (.) cause you’re not a member, I suppose
MF: Oh right
LM: It’s kind of
KF: It’s confidential
MF: (…) so they’re basically doing nine for the price of six on drinks (.) ‘buy one get second half price’ (.) Twenty oh, they’re giving you something on biscuits here (.)
KF: Yeah [coughs] Scroll it up
MF: Kingsmill (.)
KF: Tesco’s is quite extensive there I think isn’t it, unless we didn’t go into it for Sainsbury’s and
LM: Hm
KF: Or is it not in there?
LM: I think the Sainsbury’s one was just having trouble working
MF: (…)
LM: I don’t really know whether this 
MF:  Oh you get the second free, so you’re getting eight for the price of four, that’s not bad
LM: Tesco was the first of the major supermarkets over here to go on the Internet
KF: Oh really
LM: So it’s had a chance to kind of 
MF:  Twenty five pee a Mars icecream, that’s good they’re a pound (.) if you go down to the 
KF:  No
MF: No if you go into a (.) tobacconists or something
KF: Are they? MF: Mm
KF: Cause won’t (.) Asda and Wal-Mart be the er (.) when Wal-Mart gets on there er joins up with Asda they’re going to be probably quite (.)
MF: Yeah well I don’t know if Wal-Mart are on the Internet in the States I mean I assume they must be 
KF:  Yeah
LM: But it’s a sort of different retailing set up over there where more people in cities have cars
KF: Oh you don’t walk there no
LM: That’s what I mean, like in London you could see where this might take off, you don’t have a car and a bit of a way from the 
KF:  The car park’s bigger than the shop you’re shopping in (.) it’s massive
LM: So they’re you go, so that’s sort of 
MF: Ah newsagent, nothing’s happened. Oh I see sorry it’s come up here. With newspapers now what point would that be (.) if it doesn’t come til the next day
KF: [laughs]
MF: Unless you wanted to know what happened yesterday
KF: Well you wanted to order one (.) well
LM: What you get is that (.) because you can decide when you’re ordering for it, I mean you can place an order to arrive in two weeks’ time
KF: So you order the newpapers for
LM: Say you’re having a dinner party
MF: Right
LM: For two weeks
MF: And I want my guests to read newspapers cause (.) we’re a pretty boring bunch
(1.0)
KF: [laughs]
LM: Well (.) my point in a sense is that if you want something to be delivered tomorrow (.) then they’ll deliver you tomorrow’s newspaper (.)
KF: Yeah
LM: Because you know that you’re having it delivered
KF: How much are they? (1.0) John Player Special, we sell them for seven pound fifty (.) on Canaries flights (.) and they will stay seven pound fifty on Canaries flights cause we got (.) they’re non-EC. How much are Marlboro? (1.5) Thirteen ninety-nine we sell them for
LM: Which airline do you work for?
KF:  Britannia
(1.5)
LM: I’ve not heard of them
KF: It’s a charter
LM: Oh right is 
MF:  Biggest, they’re Britain’s biggest charter airline they’re sort of like the British Airways of the charter world
KF: Well it is charter 
MF:  Thompson’s (.)
KF: It’s owned by Thompson’s
LM: Okay right
KF: Lambert and Butler we sell them for seven ninety-nine, seven fifty
MF: Well obviously this isn’t airline duty free this is 
KF:  Yeah I know, I know but 
MF:  I tell you what 
KF:  I thought cigarettes were forty pounds, they’re quite cheap
MF: Yeah, yeah they are that’s the Marlboro Lights for three sixty-three a packet on that, whereas in the local corner shop they’d be about three ninety-two now (.)
KF: That’s quite a big saving then if you’re not, if you can’t get them duty-free
LM: Mm
KF: [coughs]
MF: So what is this (.) ‘favourites’
(4.0)
LM: Oh
KF: I got that free today Sizzle and Stir (.) Chicken Tonight
MF: You bought Chicken Tonight?
KF: Yeah you got to eat it [laughs]
MF: Mm bloody nice
KF: If you bought four chicken fillets, one eighty-nine that’s what they said it was Chicken Korma
MF: Oh (.) can’t get onto ‘favourites’. Off License
KF: Chicken Tonight (.) You don’t want that then? That’s what you’ve got tonight
MF: It’s okay I’ve eaten tonight
LM: Kosher wine wow
MF: Yeah they’re big on kosher food at um (.) Tesco, most of the big Tesco stores have um kosher sections
LM: Oh right
MF: (…)
KF: See how much the Drambuie is
MF: (…) something about 
KF:  What about holidays, you haven’t done holidays
(3.0)
MF: ‘Howling Wolf Brandy and Orange Liqueur’ that sounds like um (.) Drambuie seventeen ninety-nine (.) comes under speciality drinks. Well that would be okay if you’re having a dinner party and you can just from this order some wine and stuff and liqueurs and that’s delivered save you carting around trying to carry it in from the car and things
KF: You pay five pound for it (.) for the delivery (.) but I suppose if you’re having a barbecue for example (.) you’re having it, oh no you can’t you’ve got to order it the day before, well say Friday and you’re having it Saturday [coughs] you could just punch in what you want and it all turns up on your doorstep Saturday 
MF: Hm
KF: Hopefully
MF: That’s a good idea
KF: Or do you start to panic (.) and think it’s not going to arrive
MF: Well
KF: They give you a time and a date or
LM: Yeah 
KF:  Time and everything
LM: You or, you, say you order it and you say you want it delivered in the next hour they’re going to write back to you straightaway and say ‘no, sorry can’t, choose a time between such and such’
MF: Well where does it come from?
LM: It’ll come from your 
KF:  Your local store 
LM:  nearest (.) local store
MF: So we’ve got one just up the road so
LM: Yeah, but I mean 
KF:  (…) come from the local at Tesco
MF: Come from Brook Green wouldn’t it
LM: Not all, I mean not all areas deliver 
MF:  Or it might come from Kensington the new big one
LM: Hm, that one probably does (.) but not all, I mean Tesco doesn’t cover the whole country it covers some parts of London and some parts of the South East at the moment (.) um but assuming that your postcode is one where they deliver to it’ll come from your nearest big store (.) um 
KF:  And you just order all the stuff
LM: Yeah
KF: And they deliver it and you pay an extra five pounds
LM: Yeah
MF: It would be a good birthday presents (.) for me Mum (.) order a load of food and get it sent there
KF: She’d probably have already got it in the day before. No all I’m thinking is if you’ve got a special occasion (.)
MF: Mm
KF: Like a barbecue whatever Saturday and you order it all in for Saturday to arrive Saturday morning
MF: Hm
KF: It saves you getting up and going out, for five pounds it’s worth it, you do that in petrol
(1.0)
MF: Mm
(2.0)
KF: It’s worth it for that but I don’t know if it’s worth it for every week’s shopping
(2.0)
MF: Well the cost of getting a computer here and (.) getting the Internet and paying for the phone bills just so we can do (.) the occasional shop for a barbecue or a dinner party so it arrives on the morning probably isn’t cost effective
KF: It isn’t cost effective but I’m saying, I mean eventually we’re going to have to get some of these things anyway aren’t we? (1.5) Cause it’s going to be (.) otherwise we’re going to be even more left behind than 
MF:  You see the thing is (.) like that CD released thirteenth July, if I could order that now and know that I would get it on (.)
LM: Yeah
MF: No but they can’t send it to me until it’s released so it could take fourteen to twenty-eight days from then
LM: It’s not good for somebody who would go and buy it on the first day it was released and wouldn’t want to wait an extra 
MF:  (…)
LM: Well no I mean (.)
MF: It depends, if it gets a nine out of ten review in NME I want to hear it the minute it’s in the shop but (.) if I’m going to get it and it don’t get a great review I can wait two or three weeks
KF: Well then you wouldn’t want it anyway if it don’t get a great review would you?
MF: Yeah because they’ve probably given it to a bad reviewer (.) somebody who doesn’t like it and you have to actually follow what the individual reviewer’s like, so you know if they’re reviewing something you might like but they don’t like (.) it’s not, it’s not easy (.) it’s 
LM:  [laughs]
MF: (…) tell you what (.) thirty years’ experience for that
KF: Right (1.5) So now where’re we going (.) book a holiday
LM: Because in some senses, in some senses the Internet is very good for, is very good if you’re quite passionate about something, there’s lots of sources of information on there you know for every (.) artist 
MF:  I can understand that, yeah 
LM:  there’s a set of links to other websites about that artist 
MF:  Well I read an article 
LM:  there’s like reviews of 
MF:  The Manic Street Preachers have got something like fourteen hundred websites
LM: Hm
MF: About, about them (.) the fans have (…)
LM: So if you’re trying to track down obscure information chances are you’re going to find it
MF: FHM? That’s a man’s magazine
LM: (…) nothing to do with me (.) this computer came with a whole list of
MF: Oh right
LM: Most computers you buy now in fact have shopping sites already programmed into them I mean it
MF: How do I, do I have to click twice, oh right. So what would be on that what this month’s magazine for you to read
LM: No idea never been
MF: ‘Unable to find’ oh that was no good
KF: [coughs]
LM: Oh I don’t know
MF: So how did that thing suddenly appear?
LM: I (.) brought it up cause I was 
MF:  Oh sorry [laughs]
LM: No I was just looking at other things to show you briefly, give you an idea of 
MF: [to KF] You wanted to look at holidays didn’t you?
(2.5)
KF: [to LM] I can’t work out what you’re gaining from this
(1.5)
MF: Who?
(1.0)
LM: Me?
KF: Yeah. Seeing how we can work it, how we can do it or
LM: Well cause I mean it’s quite a good (.) I mean neither of you use computers (.) or the Internet that regularly
KF: No
LM: So I’m quite interested in what you make of it, cause I mean it’s different, you know 
MF:  Diesel 
(2.0)
KF: It’s a designer make
MF: Yeah (…)
LM: Yeah you can buy (.) stuff from there, although not very much, they do some basic (.)
KF: (…) malibu
MF: ‘Come inside and browse our offerings’ (4.0) Oh well have you got the latest versions of Netscape and Internet Explorer? (2.0) So how do we go inside?
LM: Well I think you just go, it might be there (.) ‘standard version’
MF: ‘Shockwave version’ (…) a bit more interesting
LM: That will play video clips
MF: Oh right
LM: Rather than just pictures
(4.0)
MF: ‘Spare parts’? ‘Changing room’? What, you get to look into a changing room? KF: [laughs]
MF: Men’s or women’s?
LM: Have a go
KF: Go on go and try it on, go and find yourself some trousers (.) and try em on, find they’re too short (3.0) or pants, try some pants on there
MF: Oh presumably they’re trousers are they? Oh that happened without me clicking
LM: Yeah I don’t know whether this computer’s getting a bit intelligent
MF: It sensed it
LM: [laughs]
(8.0)
LM: So as you can see it’s got a fairly limited selection here at the moment
(4.0)
MF: Do you get a bigger picture of it then? Oh yeah I see right, okay price sixteen ninety-nine, navy or black (2.0) takes time, doesn’t it, to come on?
KF: Would take you time to look for it (.) in the shop (1.0) Got to do your size now
(2.0)
MF: Mm (…) ‘show a little chest hair, if you’ve got it wax it’ Hm?
LM: Where does it say that?
MF: (…) ‘ten to twenty of them’ Right okay (.) it’s a short sleeved slim fit and it carries the classic Diesel logo (.) So how do I find out what, oh I see there’s more is there 
LM: I think you go back
MF: I want to know what happens in ‘changing room’ myself (.) ‘put the clothes you choose in the changing room then you can edit the size (…)’. Oh I see, you had something about a cart before
LM: Yeah
MF: Ah do you store it if you want it and then you come back
LM: Well let’s see what would happen if you actually wanted to buy that one
KF: [coughs]
LM: Ooh
(3.0)
KF: What size you going to get then?
MF: Don’t know see what they’ve got
KF: You don’t know what size you are, do you?
MF: Ah ‘select size’ ‘select quantity’ oh they said ten to twenty, shall we go for fifteen then?
LM: [laughs]
MF: It’s alright it’s on Liz’s account KF: Quantity?
MF: Yeah they said you need ten to twenty of them in your, in your wardrobe
KF: Can’t you buy one?
MF: Well I don’t know
LM: [laughs]
MF: ‘Select, choose a colour’
KF: The same colour?
MF: ‘Select size’ so ‘large’ ‘medium’ well who knows (.) what I am in their size (1.5) There you are (.) now I want more than ten
KF: No you don’t, get one
LM: [laughs]
MF: Ah right okay (.) get a large
KF: (…) size?
LM: Go (…) yeah
MF: ‘Please choose a size’ I thought I did (.) Oh I see I didn’t choose the colour first so I’ve got to go through this again (3.0) It’s good, I worked all that out. Oh see it’s in the changing room. I have to go inside now and try it on 
KF:  Yeah I was just going to say you going to put it on then? (3.0) And then wax your chest hair while you’re in there
MF: Yeah can you see if there’s anyone here can wax chest hair? (…)
LM: Yeah let’s go to the sales desk and see what, show you how it works
MF: ‘Thank you for shopping at Diesel’
KF: How much is it
MF: They’re all chewing gum
KF: (…)
MF: Oh this is it, oh that’s a bit (.) bit boring. ‘P and P’? So it says sixteen ninety-nine there’s another four quid to go on
KF: Postage and packing yeah
MF: I wonder what they are in the shops
KF: Sixteen ninety-nine
MF: I’d rather go to a shop (.) I live in London I can jump to Covent Garden any time I want
LM: Exactly yeah like 
MF:  I mean if I lived in some village and worked locally then I can understand you know, the nearest Diesel is thirty miles away
LM: Some people I interviewed in Liverpool were very keen on clothes shopping online because they were like yeah, we read all these magazines (…)
MF: Oh you managed to get out the street with your computer?
(2.0)
LM: Well I thoroughly enjoyed Liverpool [laughs]
KF: What age was it?
LM: Well it was a range of ages from early twenties to their late forties
KF: Really 
LM: Yeah (.) well it’s true that a lot of women’s magazines no matter who they cater to (.) have 
KF:  Yeah it’s true actually 
LM:  a ‘store directory’ and it’s all stuff from London 
KF:  Yeah
MF: So how did you
LM: That’s what you’d do when you go and pay, you’d put in your (.) details
KF: But would the boutiques be in here then?
LM: Well no 
KF:  I suppose they would but they’re designer labels but they’re sold in boutiques
LM: But something like Diesel okay
KF: Yeah
LM: I mean there’s probably a Diesel in Manchester 
KF:  Yeah
LM: And Birmingham, but it’s probably 
MF:  Oh hold on a minute, right you got a (…) Oh I see I haven’t done it, oh forget all that then
LM: And I mean, so there you go that’s what you do, you enter all your details and then go and enter your credit card info and so on (.) Um we should probably get off this now because we’ve probably been on quite a long time (1.0) But the sorts of things that are sort of 
MF:  Can we have a look at a holiday one, you wanted to look at that didn’t you? Amazon, that’s a book one, I’ve seen them advertised (.) on the underground (1.0) ‘Ministry of Sound’ ‘Q’
LM: (…) think of one actually, there’s one called ‘Travelocity’ I think
MF: ‘Travelocity’ 
LM: It’s a travel site, which is kind of last minute flights
KF: That’s the bit I can do, no one’s done that so far that’s the first time that anyone’s done that
MF: What?
KF: Can type
MF: Oh
KF: [laughs]
MF: You don’t need to
(5.0)
LM: ‘world fares’
MF: Oh (.) right (.) oh you’ve got to put in a password, oh that’s no bloody good
KF: How do you know that? MF: Well it says (.) ‘password’
LM: Yeah
MF: I was looking at the search thing
LM: Yeah for some reason they do 
MF:  Oh this is American (1.0) oh ‘purchase’ oh I don’t want to purchase, I just want to look (…) ‘be a guest’ oh that’s what you did before, oh that’s what I’ll do
KF: (…) Round trip, British Airways
LM: Yeah
KF: That’s good isn’t it
LM: See if we can find some cheap flights
MF: Oh right (4.0) (…) city names or airport codes well let’s see if you can 
KF:  RGW
MF: Let’s see if you can do it from here
KF: Where do you want to go, Luxor MF: Well I’ll say MCO cause that’s the only one I can remember 
KF:  Okay
MF: Oh this is good, you don’t even have to think all the months are there for you
KF: August (2.0) go the eighth
MF: Go the twelfth my sister’s birthday, get away from her (.) ‘Return’ well I suppose fourteen days later
(2.0)
KF: That’s about it isn’t it
MF: I don’t care what time I depart
KF: Some people do, they don’t want to go on all night
MF: (…) we’ll go for ‘cheap’. ‘Select an airline search preference’ ‘search all airlines’ yeah
(3.0)
KF: That was quick
(1.0)
MF: I’m getting the hang of this. You can leave this here for a few days if you like. Oh nothing’s happened. ‘At least one of your cities is outside the US’ oh, oh I see [laughs]
KF: What’s wrong with it? MF: Oh cause I chose
KF: US
MF: I chose outside the US
KF: What Orlando? It’s not outside the US
MF: No, LGW is outside the US isn’t it?
KF: Oh so you’ve got to book one within the US? MF: Yes this is an American one, what about Easy Jet, they’ve got something haven’t they?
LM: They have got a website, haven’t they yeah?
MF: Mm (.) they’ve got it on the side of their planes. They’re doing an Internet thing, I walked through Victoria station, they had a great big thing about (.) 
LM:  Yeah
KF: [coughs]
LM: And they do something like a pound off if you book your tickets online, I thought that was (.) hilarious 
KF:  Whoopee doo
LM: So cheap
MF: Easy Jet (.) Oh that’s very good isn’t it
KF: Where are we going to go? 
MF: ‘News’ ‘Info’
LM: It’s a pretty basic site, isn’t it?
MF: So what would I do, I don’t want to buy
KF: Better get some information
MF: I don’t want news, I presumably go to ‘Information’ which probably just tells me a load of crap about Easy Jet
KF: No it should tell you where they fly to and how much tickets are
(2.0)
MF: ‘Prices’ that’s what I want ‘Message from Stelios’ oh god (.) ‘Click on the destination’. Shall I just go for ‘prices’ and see what happens?
KF: [coughs]
MF: ‘Click here for an online quote’
KF: (…)
(11.0)
MF: Hm, I didn’t know you didn’t get a ticket
(1.0)
KF: Probably just turn up then (.) if no one gets a ticket (.) Mr and Mrs Smith
(6.0)
MF: Do they fly from Gatwick?
KF: Er
MF: Oh we’ll soon find out
KF: I think I’ve seen them there (.) Luton (.) no
MF: No it seems to be Luton (6.0). Sorry you sit down and watch me play, it’s like a toy this
KF: Well you can play it cause I’ll sit and watch
MF: (…)
KF: So where are you going now?
(6.0)
LM: I mean what do you think of this so far, generally? All these different sites (.) is it something that appeals, or not really?
KF: I don’t think it appeals to me that much (1.5) Not as much as (.) (…) got more things that he’s interested in on it as well
LM: Mm
KF: To be honest. I mean mine’s just shopping
LM: Mm and if you can buy from the States quite regularly
KF: Yeah (.) well reasonably regularly. Used to be more regularly than it as at the moment, but um (1.5) I mean the only way I, as I said earlier, is having like a barbecue on Saturday or whatever and we wanted to go to Tesco’s (.) we just do all the shopping over the Internet the day, the night before and it all arrives on the doorstep the next day, and we’re not fixed on a sell by date issue with it (1.0)
MF: Oh no outbound flights
KF: Available
MF: So does it give me an alternative date (…) What does that mean, is it full or just they don’t fly there on the day I chose? LM: It’s not very clear is it? I mean what 
KF:  [coughs] Where did you say you wanted to go?
MF: Malaga
KF: On (.) twelfth August
MF: Twelfth August and maybe they don’t fly there on a (.) whatever day of the week that is
KF: I don’t know how Easy Jet operate
LM: Hm (.) yeah it’s not very much information is there really?
MF: Well it’s a bit of a low cost thing isn’t it
KF: You’d think British Airways then (.)
MF: (…)
KF: Yeah
LM: Yeah
KF: Yeah you’d have thought a lot more were on here than just Easy Jet
LM: Yeah I think travel is actually one of the sort of things where 
KF:  And transatlantic (…) doing it that way
MF: (…)
KF: Well not when you’ve only got your basics and you’ve still got to go out and get your evening meals, no it isn’t worth it. If you’ve got to go back to the shop then it makes that, that delivery charge not worth it, doesn’t it? The idea of you paying the delivery charge 
MF:  Yeah but I mean 
KF:  is that you don’t actually have to visit the shop 
MF:  Yeah it doesn’t have to be the basics you could probably get, you know, a chicken, you know, six potatoes and salad stuff, some meat
(1.5)
KF: Well yeah if you can (.) categorise, if you can work it down to do a full shop I think it’s worth it, but not if you’re [coughs]
MF: Yeah the other thing is we tend to be out and about. I can imagine (.) if we weren’t or if I was like (.) on my own and just like weekend, that’s it I don’t want to go out, I just want to slob all day and play video games and watch football on TV and listen to music and just have a shower and go out in the night time but I need all this stuff and I can’t be hacked to go to Tesco’s and buy some milk and cheese and bread for the week, then I can understand that. Well isn’t this, lazy is what it’s going to make us all (1.0) I don’t know about clothes (1.0)
KF: I have to see what things look like on me
MF:  I mean there are certain things 
KF:  What’s the return (1.0) I mean (.) have you got to pay postage and packing back to them again? 
MF: I suppose you 
KF:  Or take it back yourself?
LM: Er no I think it’s very much like um I mean I assume if there’s a Diesel shop you could take it back to a Diesel shop or otherwise it would be like mail order and
MF: You’ve got to know, I mean if there’s er a page, cause for me for example I’m quite tall, I mean I cannot buy (.) I need a thirty-five or thirty-six inch leg, I can’t go into and I certainly can’t, Marks and Spencer’s extra long is thirty-three inches so I’ve never bought trousers in Marks and Spencer’s (.) Next I can just about, on some of their lines only. The only place I can buy them off the peg is Gap 
(1.5)
KF: But I can’t go into any 
MF:  But I know that I could, if there was a Gap page there I know I could order a pair of trousers (.) at thirty-three, thirty-six (.) but then I would need to have tried them on a size, although (.) nothing I’ve tried on in Gap hasn’t fitted me and it looks okay
LM: It’s true if there was a Levis page I’d know what their sizes meant
MF: Yeah no, Levis I would have to go and try a load on
LM: Yeah
KF: Yeah I mean
LM: Yeah if it was a brand I’d not bought from before I would have to go and try them
KF: Yeah (.) Because your shape even though you say oh well I’m a size ten (.) yeah, I am a size ten but generally my waist is too small for my hips so I have to sometimes I’ve tried them on and the waist is really massive, it’s like three inches too big 
MF:  Jeans are difficult though
KF: Or the hips are too tight and the waist fits nicely [coughs]. They’re all size tens
MF: Yeah but you are, there are certain things, I seem to be the perfect shape for Gap trousers of a certain 
KF:  Well you know what you want then
MF: Thirty three, thirty six, or thirty four thirty six if they’re slim fit 
KF:  It’s when you’re in doubt I suppose
MF: And the same for something like Woodhouse, but then it’s very fashionable Woodhouse so there might be something that fits but just looks wrong on me
KF: Yeah
MF: But I couldn’t go into something like French Connection and just order a pair of trousers, even if they did my length because I mean I don’t think (…)
KF: I suppose this is catalogue, this is sort of stemmed from the catalogue mail order type thing, hasn’t it really? In a way that side of it, the clothes shopping side of it, but I don’t know how you return stuff and I don’t know, I’ve never bought clothes on a catalogue so I wouldn’t know how (.) they work. I know you pay so much a week
MF: Well if to return it you’ve got to the shop you might as well go to the shop in the first place
KF: Yeah make sure you get it right
LM: Well I think it’s like you were saying if you’ve been somewhere where you can’t get to the shop 
MF:  But then 
LM:  and you desparately want to wear Diesel
KF: Yeah
MF: But that’s interesting
LM: Post office sending it back because you get to wear Diesel
MF: Cause we’ve probably got half a dozen Gaps within fifteen minutes’ drive from here (1.0) but in Croydon where I work there is no Gap, Gap have never opened a shop in Croydon for some obscure reason, but for some reason Croydon is just (1.0) of no interest to them, I don’t know why
LM: Hm
MF: So if I lived in Croydon and I really wanted some Gap stuff and I’d been shopping in town one day and I found Gap really fitted me (.) then maybe um that would be of benefit I don’t know
LM: (…)
MF: So maybe we’re just spoiled in this part of town
LM: People outside London are more into it
KF: What do they say about the food shopping?
LM: A lot of people have been quite into the food shopping actually
KF: My only reservation is the sell by dates
LM: Yeah
KF: That’s my only reservation
MF: Unless there’s a guarantee that they send you the freshest stuff all the time
LM: At the moment Tesco’s are very keen for you to be very impressed by this so they’re not going to do anything to jeopardise (.) that you know if they send you something that’s out of date or is just going to (…)
KF: Yeah
LM: I mean they have like ‘expert shoppers’ who go around and do your shopping for you, they get your list and they go and get it
KF: So they go rummaging to the back
LM: I think that’s quite an instinctive thing to do actually, everybody says they go to the back to find the 
KF:  They all say that LM: Everybody says that
KF: Oh I thought I was on my own
LM: No but everybody does it, and I think the expert shoppers do it too
KF: Oh but all the little old people get them from the front don’t they (1.0) I bet all the older people do
LM: I think it’s if you don’t care (…) but if you think about it then you do want your fresh stuff to last
KF: (…)
MF: Well if it’s same day (.) if I had that at work (.) and they had a ten o’ clock same day I could go into work and order at ten o’ clock in the morning knowing it was going to be delivered at seven o’clock and I’d be home by seven to collect it. But then it’s ridiculous cause on my way home from the station to here (.) I get a bus, but on that route I pass a Safeway’s, a Tesco’s, a Marks and Spencer’s and a Waitrose (.) so I mean why would I need to do it I just, I just walk to one of them and jump on the bus home. But then again that’s living here
KF: Yeah MF: When I lived in Clapham for a year, eighteen months I went to Clapham North and there was no shop, I would have to make (.) the nearest supermarket to me was Asda at Clapham Junction and that was actually very, that was about a fifteen twenty minute walk away from where I lived
KF: Yeah (.) they’re opening all these little local ones as well
MF: Yeah so that
LM: Yeah I have a Tesco Metro near me which is nice but I’d rather have a larger one
MF: Well up the road here we’ve got a Sainsbury’s that’s open from six in the morning til midnight, seven days a week including Christmas day
KF: Christmas day, it’s the only one that’s ever been open Christmas day it was on the news (.) Sainsbury’s Local
MF: And you go 
LM:  What that little one?
KF: Yeah, yeah
MF: You go past about half eleven on a Sunday night there’s about a hundred people in the queue (.) I mean people go shopping at half eleven on a Sunday night, why?
LM: Yeah
MF: (…) (2.0) I mean I don’t know if I would go to the cost and expense of doing all this from home (.) just for the chance to buy a few cheap CDs from America and
KF: What having the whole thing
MF: Once every three or four weeks get a load of stuff delivered from Tesco’s on a Saturday cause we’ve got people round and we can’t be bothered to go out cause it’s raining or something (.) and um
KF: You’d have to have it for other reasons, you’d have to get it for your own reasons first and that would just be added
MF: Yeah I wouldn’t get it for shopping
LM: Yeah
KF: Yeah you’d have to get it for (…) work and stuff (1.0) initially. That’s what you’d have to want it for (1.0) and then see what else is on there
MF: Are you trying to find out if people would go onto the Internet purely for shopping?
LM: I didn’t start off thinking that anybody would ,but it is 
MF:  Who are you doing this for out of interest?
LM: It’s an academic piece of research. I work at University College and I work for someone interested in Economic Psychology and we think it’s something that’s going to become important over the next few years
MF: I can understand for business as I say, now hardly a day goes by without somebody I speak to or even candidates (.) most people I work on seem to have access to email be it through work or at home and say well I’ll email you my CV, and I say you can’t, I’m not on it. So I can understand business-wise, I don’t know
KF: It sounds like a fax machine then, email (.)
MF: Effectively yeah
KF: Yeah
MF: Well it’s basically
KF: Now you’ve said that
LM: (…)
KF: Yeah (.) but the other end would have to print it out presumably for their records
MF: No it comes up on screen
KF: Yeah but when the screen’s gone it’s gone, they need it don’t they?
MF: No you save it
KF: Oh you save it on the screen on a disk oh right, right, right
(5.0)
MF: So you’re doing research for somebody who thinks that what, in five years’ time that everybody’s going to have this purely for shopping?
LM: No (.) I mean 
KF:  How much it’s going to be used?
LM: Yeah, to get an idea of who’s going to use it, what they’re going to use it for, what would put them off using it, what they’d get into for, how much of it depends on purely personal factors and how much of it is about other things, like whether they use computers at the moment, whether that’s an important factor 
MF:  Yeah there would have to be, it’s not a natural thing. I should imagine if (.) yeah if I had a computer at home, I worked at home, I need a computer at home then it would probably be a much easier decision (.) to think oh well let’s pay for another (…) go onto the Internet. Cause that’s the whole point of things like Freeserve isn’t it, that it’s free
LM: (…) I have free Internet access in my office
MF: Yeah but presumably if you work for a big company they must bar you surely otherwise people don’t do any work they’d sit there all day doing things like this
LM: Yes some companies have policies
KF: (…)
MF: Yeah I think there would have to be, to actually go out with the cost of buying a computer and everything and linking up to the Internet I suppose I’d have to think, there’d have to be more (.) than just the chance to buy some CDs and some food
KF: That’s what I said to you, you’d have to get it for your own reasons first and that’s just a, all those (.) facilities it has is an added bonus to you (.) isn’t that the way you’d do it (…) that way around?
MF: Yeah I mean if I hated shopping I might look at it differently (1.5) I might think this is brilliant, I’ve got to get about twenty Christmas presents minimum at Christmas for all these people, great the Body Shop’s got one well I can just buy some (.) lotions and potions for this person and that person off the Body Shop 
KF:  (…) 
MF:  and I don’t have to walk out of here (.) yeah just have them all delivered here, wrap them up
KF: (…)
MF: No I’m saying I could see that, if I hated shopping but you had to buy loads of presents
KF: I was going to say, cause I’ve never known you buy anybody anything from the Body Shop (.) in all the years I’ve known you (.) for a Christmas present I mean that’s like (.) stuff like (.)
MF: Well it’s just cause Body Shop was there (…) think I’ll give my sister one of these big things with lotions and potions (1.5) I don’t know (…)
KF: It would have to be, there’d have to be more on there (.) I mean the Marks and Spencer’s one 
MF:  Even better (.) buy it and ask them to deliver it to them and then you don’t even have to go and visit them really
KF: Can they wrap it up 
MF:  I think 
KF:  and write a card as well 
MF:  from the more people tell me at work (.) this is such a dehumanising thing, all of this email, the Internet (.) I can see from the way clients talk to me that if I had it at work I would barely talk to them over the phone, there would just be messages going backwards and forwards
KF: And no communication
MF: You’d never talk to anybody (.) and that (.) scares me about it (.) 
KF: It’s lost the personal touch
MF: It’s a very dehumanising thing (.) What’s the point of going out and buying state-of-the-art Diesel clothes if you actually, you know, you’ve got all this stuff and you never have to interact with other people
KF: Staying in and (.) pressing buttons
MF: Yeah this, this 
KF:  Wearing Diesel trousers 
MF:  This is a charter for nonces
KF: [coughs]
MF: People with no social skills are up to no good, and they can (.) you know correspond, they can actually interact with other people without having to physically interact with them
KF: That’s what I said about meeting people on them (.) meeting people on the Internet (.)
LM: But the sort of interactions that you’re ruling out here are basically interactions with shop assistants (.) and possibly business contacts (.) so is it dehumanising or is it just (.) 
MF:  It is for someone like me 
LM:  changing the kinds of ways you relate to people 
MF:  because my job is pretty much all over the phone and there’s a lot (.) a lot of it is based on conversations with people and reading into the vocal inflection
LM: So you interview on the phone?
MF: No I don’t interview on the phone but you’re talking to people and you’re talking to clients (.) you can tell from the vocal inflections, I mean I’ve just (.) been working with somebody (.) a candidate who has no land line (.) at home, only has a mobile, and I found that very difficult because on mobiles you cannot build up the rapport over the phone that you can on a one to one conversation on land line, there’s no vocal inflection, you can’t (.) tell whether they’re changing their, it’s all very very cracking up all the time, I found it very difficult cause I couldn’t (.) you couldn’t tell if they were being serious, if they were being (.)
KF: You won’t get much rapport out of that
MF: Well that’s what I mean, this is even more so (2.0) No I’m all for personal contact
KF: So you don’t like it?
MF: No I want the next stage where you can talk to it and it will talk back to you, Tesco’s will talk back and say ‘Ah now would you like those tomatoes firm or would you like them soft?’ ‘When would you like to eat these peaches? Today, tomorrow or next week? Okay we’ll send you ones…’ 
KF:  Is that the future?
(1.0)
LM: Well (.) eventually yeah. I mean there’s already stuff where (.) you can give them different levels of authority, you can say ‘I want some bananas’ (.) and ‘if you haven’t got the kind of bananas then I will authorise you to get me some similar, so if you haven’t got any very ripe ones then you can get me some firm ones and I’ll (…) next week’. Or you can say ‘if you haven’t got (.) ripe baby bananas then I don’t want anything’. Do you know what I mean, or ‘if you don’t have Heinz baked beans then I will have HP, or I will have your own brand (…). Or you know
KF: Right
MF: I can see one use for this actually (.) be useful for the local pizza delivery and Indian delivery because they can (.) they can never speak English over the phone anyway and get it wrong, this way you just tap in exactly what you want off the menu 
KF:  And you can pester them when it’s been fifty five minutes and they’ve told you it’s going to be half and hour
MF: Yeah you can block ‘em, you can block their lines so no one else can order until they deliver it [laughs]
(3.0)
LM: Okay (.) okay
KF: I hope you’ve got some information out of this
LM: Yeah that’s good (.) interesting
MF: Like I say it’s like a toy (.) I can see it’s like a Sony Playstation or a Nintendo
LM: Well for a lot of people (.) in fact for most people at the moment that’s what it is like because you can’t buy all that much, it’s a novel way to buy CDs you know
MF: Yeah
LM: But whether it actually 
MF:  But then again you know 
LM:  replaces going down to Virgin or Tower or 
MF: I suppose it’s difficult for me to say because I (.) yeah I mean I am able to, I work near both a Virgin Megastore and an HMV Megastore, and I pass by two Our Prices on my route to work so (.) on a Monday morning it’s not very difficult for me to pop in and buy something I want
LM: And it can be quite habitual presumably, like you can know on Monday, on the way to work, must buy 
MF:  Well I know from reading all my music papers and things
LM: Yeah
MF: You know, what’s coming out and when
LM: Yeah
KF: But you can’t get any Gap jeans
MF: [laughs]
KF: [coughs] So all on location then dear
MF: Yes (.) well next you’ll be buying houses on there I suppose. Well you said you can buy cars (.) book holidays, presumably you can buy furniture 
KF:  Well we could have bought a car 
MF:  TVs and things
LM: A lot of it’s about finding information I mean I’ve looked at some stuff about houses and house prices and sort of (.) finding out how much information it will give you about (.) flats and you know (.) but it’s more like a research thing there
MF: There’s a football website (.) and they’ve got a Soccer Net now where you can just chat, you can just go in and leave messages
LM: Yeah
MF: I wouldn’t spend the day doing that
KF: (…)
MF: I wouldn’t get to work [laughs] I’d still be here ‘Hold on, hold on I just want to write to this person here’
(3.0)
LM: Right (1.0) Okay



Ut34

Ut 34 ABC1 family, teenage children

Pete:		My name is Pete, can we just introduce ourselves.

Family:	I’m L, I’m S, I and P and D.

Pete:	We are talking to people about the Internet and using computers and particularly about shopping, shopping over the Internet.

Dad:		Oh right.

Pete:		Have you tried it?

Mum:		No.

Pete:	Well you can try it tonight, we’ll try it in a bit, but I don’t know if you’ll buy anything.  The Tesco sight is quite interesting; we’ll look at that.  

Mum:		We had that didn’t we?   

Dad:		We had the Tescos CD at one point yes.

Pete:		They sent those round didn’t they?

Dad:	Yes, it was a bit of a disaster, the first one was free serve and that was a total disaster and then I tried to load Tescos and it only half loaded.

Pete:		That was to use them as an Internet service provider.

Dad:		Yes, that’s right.

Pete:		And that didn’t work?

Dad:	It only half loaded and because you had to use your Tescos club card number you couldn’t get in again.

Mum:	We was in a right mess weren’t we and then Asda did one.

I:	I didn’t actually put that one on.

Mum:	WH Smith gave me one the other day.

Dad:	They’re all doing it.

Pete:	They’re dishing them out like.

Dad/Mum:	Yea.

Pete:	I’ve got about five of them.  You’ve got a PC you were saying?

Mum:	Yea, it’s upstairs.

Dad:	Up in the bedroom (ha ha).

Pete:	Who uses that and what for?

Mum:	We all do.  I uses it because he’s doing his Levels; he does his course work and looking up different information.  The two little ones, was it you who had the EgyptIs.  D had the women’s roles since 1930 or something.

Pete:	Project work?

Mum:	Yea that type of thing.  Susie when she’s in Leeds and University 

Dad:	Speaks for herself.

S:	I don’t really use it a lot at home except to e-mail, the Internet is while I’m at college and I’ve got course work to do.

Pete:	Right, right.

Dad:	I use it a fair bit, mainly to browse.

Pete:	Right.

S:	He’s the one who tries to get us all engrossed in it.

Dad:	(Family Laughter!) That’s right.

Pete:	You’re not that fussed about it by the sound of it. 

S:	I use it because I have to, but I wouldn’t go searching for things just to do it.

Pete:	Browsing.

Mum:	We do don’t we I.  What was that lot?

I:	The cults.

Mum:	The Druids.

I:	We nearly joined a cult.  It was about ten hours a week to help build a settlement.

Mum:	Something to do with the Druids.

I:	That was a different one.

Mum:	Oh was it.  We tend to do that sort of thing when we are on our own.

Pete:	What you just sort of look.

I:	We look up things like the KGB and it will be a window company or something, it’s not RussI.

Mum:	Oh that’s right yea, we were getting quite excited we’d gotten into the KGB.

Pete:	Perhaps it’s a counter bluff, maybe they are.  How long have you had the PC?

Dad:	We’ve had the PC about 18 months.  Before that we had a small 486 we weren’t actually connected or anything like that.

Pete:	Was it Internet ready when you bought it.

Dad:	Yea.

S:	It wasn’t ready for anything, in fact it was ready for the tip actually after we bought it.

Dad:	It wasn’t very well set up in the first place we had a lot of trouble with it.

Mum:	At that stage I didn’t know anything.

Dad:	I think the main problem was with the games, which I think is the problem with most PC’s.  

Mum:	I didn’t even know how to turn it on at that stage.  P said you’ll have to phone them and I said to the guy I’m telling you now I don’t even know how to turn it on so don’t ramble on and he did and then he said have you done that? What’s it doing and I said, absolutely nothing, how do you turn it on?!  Anyway it took about three hours and I finally set it all up and then he come home and said what did you do?  I can’t remember, pressed a few knobs.

Dad:	It was an education wasn’t it.

Pete:	That was Tinys after sales service was it? Is that free when you buy the machine, can you ring them up?

Dad:	Yea.  If you go on line it costs you money.  The only thing is, Saturday morning is the only time I could have gone on, they gave you a telephone number which was incorrect and you had to get another number from the Customer Services Monday to Friday to get the Saturday number.

Mum:	And then they didn’t work Saturdays.

Dad:	They worked 10 –1 pm or something.  A bit of a shambles.

Mum:	We weren’t impressed with Tiny at all were we.

Pete:	I think they do claim that their machines are Internet ready but I think most people, it takes a while to set them up, once thy are going they’re OK.

Mum:	Michael’s Dad, his friend got one and he was always phoning P to go and fix it for him.

Dad:	I think its luck of the draw with any of these isn’t it.  You get the wrong combination of things and you’ve got a problem.

Pete:	Why did you get a PC in the first place?

Dad:	We had another one initially which I got off my Dad because he upgraded.

Pete:	The 486?

Dad:	Yea.  We just needed something with a bit more capability really.

Mum:	It was Susie doing her GCSEs really that started it because a lot o the course work they were given extra marks if they did it on computer.

Pete:	Oh right.

S:	We did that on the other one didn’t we, the word processor, it was more for the research.

Dad:	The whole package with this one was a lot better.  We had one of the old line printers and trying to line it up, sometimes the pages were OK and half way down the document you where three or four lines out.  With an Ink Jet one you just leave it and it does it it’s self.

S:	And also this is more similar to what they have at school, it’s more in line with.

I:	Better.

Pete:	OK, tell me about the Internet, what is the Internet?

S:	What is the Internet?

Pete:	Yea, I’m just warming up the interview now.

Dad:	Oh right.  It’s means of getting information, which is out there; there is just so much information out there, that’s what we use it for.  I mean we are aware that people use it for shopping but we have never used it for that.

Pete:	So it’s a library?

Mum:	To us it is.

Dad:	To a certain extent it is.  To us it is yes.  It’s a way of communicating as well, with e-mails and things.

I:	Play Games with friends.

S:	When I’m at Uni. It’s cheaper to e-mail.

Dad:	And when she’s there we can actually guarantee to getting through to her on the computer were, as we wouldn’t necessarily on the phone, we’d have to wait until she’s home in the evening.

Mum:	Even then there is no guarantee the messages will be passed on were at least on her line she would pick up the messages.

Pete:	Have you got an account at university?

S:	It’s free to use the Internet at university.

Pete:	Yea.

Mum:	And at college it’s free.  

I:	Yes.

Pete:	What about shopping on the Internet, what have you heard about it?

Mum:	Iceland or Tescos, one of them, had mentioned.

Dad:	Some people at work use it.  Strangely, the ones who aren’t normally computer literate, so it must be relatively straightforward.

Pete:	What do they use it for, do they say?

Dad:	For their weekly shop.  It’s usually the people who haven’t got a family, they get the same things all the time. 

S:	I thought it was catalogue type shopping I didn’t realise.

Dad:	No, it’s food shopping as well.

Mum:	I can’t remember now whether it was Iceland or Tesco was trying to talk me into instead of queuing up every week doing on the computer but I was wary to be honest.  In case it didn’t come, and then I’m stuck with rushing out when they get in from school to try and get dinner, that type of thing really.

I:	A lot of my friends have bought sound packages and things.  You can go into Microsoft and download it for £29.99, sometimes they work.

Pete:	And there is free software as well. 

Dad:	Oh yea, we’ve done some downloads.

Mum:	And Susie’s university we browsed through the net didn’t we? Different universities.

Pete:	What checking out their websites?

Mum:	Some schools were really awful.

S:	Some were really very basic and not particularly a good advertisement.  Some were all right.  

Mum:	We’ve tried about everything on it really haven’t we?  We even tried to see what was on the blimp we couldn’t get in.

Dad:	(Ha Ha).  Most people do it by accident but (Ha Ha).

Pete:	Well, I’m not researching that.

Mum:	Just as well.

Pete: 	I’ve got a friend who is doing that project.  What do you think the isSs are around people Internet shopping?

Dad:	Well I think some people have got an isS with the safety as far as the money is concerned.

Pete:	Right.

Dad:	Personally we haven’t actually got a credit card at the moment so I don’t know, initially they were all taking things by credit card rather than Switch or anything else weren’t they?

Pete:	Yea.

Dad:	So I don’t know if that is still the case.

Pete:	Most of them will take Switch as well.

Mum:	I’d be wary about giving them my number.  Even when you order say theatre tickets and you give them your card number, I’d always be wary of who is actually picking up my number.  

Dad:	The other thing with you though is you tend to go out and then decide what you want to buy don’t you.

Mum:	Oh yes.

S:	She doesn’t know what a shopping list is.

Pete:	So you don’t organise your shopping in advance and have a list?

Mum:	Well I have rough idea that I need bread and milk and cheese.

S:	That doesn’t mean that she comes back with it. (More family laughter)

Pete:	I do the shopping in my house and I get the same criticisms.

Mum:	They start moaning that there are no cakes and biscuits and then they start moaning that, ‘I was on a diet this week what did you buy all them for?’ 

I:	I’ve never complained about being on a diet.

Pete:	Yes, so a certain sort of style is suited to you. You go into a shop and se what’s there and then you buy it.

Mum:	Yea.  Impulse buying they call it don’t they.  I tend to be very impulsive.

Dad:	Apparently, I was talking to one during the week and apparently some of these sites have it all up front, the bargains and whatever, which is a way of getting you interested in the first place I suppose.

Pete:	Yea, well we’ll see when we look at the site. 

Dad:	So is this for a particular company you’re doing this or just in general?

Pete:	No it’s not, it’s not market research, it’s academic research. 

Dad:	Oh right.

Pete:	So I haven’t got any axe to grind.  So shall we look at some sites to see what you think of them?  So who’s going to work this machine?

Mum:	What you looking at me for?

Pete:	It’s going to make a noise, the modem makes a noise.  That’s not very loud, it’s usually louder than that.

Mum:	Do you shop on the Net then?

Pete:	Yea, I have done yea.

Mum:	How do you find it?

Pete:	Yea it’s OK, I’ve done some grocery shopping.

Mum:	Have you?

Pete:	Tescos, it’s quite good and you can specify the time and they come within a two hour period.  

I:	You’ve got to guarantee you’re in though.

Mum:	It’s like Iceland’s home delivery, I just say I’m at work between then.

Pete:	That’s right and then they come.  All right, let’s have a look.  I’ve got a few sights here Amazon.com have you heard of that?

Dad:	Yes it’s the books isn’t it?

Pete:	Yea, shall we look at that?

Dad:	Yes.  You’ll be stuck there with Lill if it’s books.

Pete:	Alright, let’s start with that one.  You say you’ve heard of Amazon.com, have you looked at it.

Mum:	What’s that?

Pete:	Amozon.com?

Mum:	No I haven’t.

S:	We did, didn’t we?

Dad:	Yea.

S:	We tend to pick things accidentally more than anything.

Dad:	That was when we first went on it.

Pete:	So OK here we go, this is their site.  Tell me what you think of their site, any thoughts about that?

Dad:	I think it’s actually better with stuff at the top than down the sides.

Pete:	I think it’s better run down the sides.

Mum:	Oh I don’t know, I think it’s easier….

Dad:	It’s easier to see at first glance.  Sometimes they have them down the sides and you think it’s at the end and then it isn’t.

S:	Particularly with our screen, I think it’s got particularly big print hasn’t it?

Mum:	I think Dad put it big print so I wouldn’t have to keep wearing my glasses.

Pete:	So OK, this is their front page.  It’s got a lot of stuff on it hasn’t it?  There’s a sort of debate about web design, whether you should go simple and clean or you should fill with information.  So here’s the books section, so they have a few books that they are promoting and then you can look in different categories of books.  What shall we look in?

Mum:	Mystery and Thrillers.

Pete:	Mystery and thrillers.

S:	Crisis in Cuba.

Pete:	I can’t say I’ve read that.  These are the ones they are promoting.  You can put in an author or a title there, lets look at a particular thing.

S:	Can you order through this?

Pete:	Yes.

Mum:	Oh right, so you could actually order your Smiths things.

Pete:	Smiths have now got one of their own.

Mum:	Yes, the one they gave me the other day.  But then like you were saying you have to unload the other one.

Dad:	Sometimes it’s easier to just have one on because if you load another one on you have to change all the details and everything.

Pete:	What you can do here is write a review, you have customer comments on the reviews, so you read what people think of the book.  Here we go, this is a review you they’ve extracted from a magazine, so you can read reviews about the book.  You can read what previous customers think about it as well, customer comments.  You can write a review yourself, if you feel you want to do it.  If you like this book, there’s some others like it.  What they’ve done is they’ve done an analysis of the people buying the books and the ones who buy this book also tended to buy these kind of books.  They’re offering you choices based on your interest in that particular book.  What they’re doing is an analysis of the shopping their customers do and building up a profile of what books are related to each other.  So when you go on line if you are a regular customer they give you an identity an identification, so when you go back they say oh hello we’ve got this book you might be interested in.  What do you think about that idea, about the website knowing what your preferences are?

S:	Quite good for something like books.

Mum:	Yea.

Pete:	Just books or.

S:	Well, books in particular because you often walk into a book shop and wonder, don’t we.

Mum:	Wonder around yea.

S:	We can’t work out what we have read and what we haven’t read and can’t work out what sort of things are related.

Pete:	Right.

Mum:	Especially with you with your textbook type things.

S:	I don’t think it would work with textbooks, I tend to use them before I decide to buy them.

Pete:	What from the library?

S:	Yes.

Pete:	The way they identify you, while we are on line here they are actually writing something onto the hard disk.

Dad:	The only thing with that is, it tends to build up quite quickly and you’re not quite sure what to get rid of.

Pete:	You mean cookies.

Dad:	Yea.

Pete:	Well you can get rid of it all.

Dad:	Then it can take longer to load up sometimes as it can speed up connection by having them.

Pete:	That’s true.

Dad:	When we had it first of all, I think it was with free serve and by default it was keeping all the cookies and it ended up that it crippled the machine.

Pete:	Yea.  Some people don’t like the idea of the site being able to identify you.  I suppose when you shop now, when you go to the supermarket you’re anonymous in a sense.

Dad:	But there again with Sainsburys and Tescos and those cards and things they’re building up with their loyalty cards.

Mum:	That’s right.

Dad:	It depends whether you know it’s happening or you know it’s happening anyway.

Pete:	That’s right.  Certainly with Sainsburys and Tescos when you go on line they’ll be able to conjoin the data they got from your card over the years and build a profile of you then analyse your on-line behaviour.  The clicks and where you visit and with cookies they can find out what other websites you visit.

S:	Oh right.

Pete:	Are you comfortable with all that?

S:	I don’t care, if they want to know that badly they can.

Dad:	I can understand people having an isS with it.

Mum:	I suppose it depends what you are actually doing doesn’t it?  I suppose if it was secret type work you were doing then maybe

S:	If you’re a spy or with a secretive type nature.

Mum:	Well not everybody likes to tell everybody everything do they?

Pete:	You don’t think there are any civil liberty isSs there?

Dad:	I would have thought they must be covered to a certain extent, because any information that’s kept on you has got to be kept for a particular reason hasn’t it?  You’ve got to be able to know if you actually ask them what information they’ve got on you, especially if they don’t tell you.

Mum:	But seemingly if you knew what information they had on you, you’d go ballistic wouldn’t you?

Pete:	Well that’s right and that sort of protection that you’re talking about is data protection.  The sort of information we’re talking about, it’s not quite clear who owns it is it?

Dad:	I suppose not.

Pete:	It’s not like personal information of the simple sort, so whether they’d have to declare it and make it available to you.

Mum:	But there’s no guarantee anyway.

I:	If it’s sites you’ve visited then they can visit them as well.

Mum:	No but it’s a build up of you rather than your sites.

Dad:	Everybody having an idea of what you’re like.

I:	Why would they want to?

Mum:	People control people.

Dad:	Eventually everything will be run by companies, it won’t be run by governments.

Mum:	When we were your age, when we were younger we used to go to Sainsburys and it was like a little supermarket round the corner.  Were as now you’re basically talking about doing away with supermarkets and having one of these.

Dad:	I remember when it first started all this on-line shopping, they were literally going around the shops and picking the stuff up.

Pete:	They still are, because they haven’t built dedicated warehouses.  They call it, ‘an expert shopper’ who goes around the store for you.

Dad:	It’s amazing isn’t it.

Pete:	It’s worse than that, they haven’t quite got the computers sorted out, so they print out the list you send on-line and someone goes around.  You can see them in Tesco stores and they take it to the till just like anyone else would and it’s checked through.  I mean it’s early days yet so presumably they’ll change that.

Mum:	It’s quite sweet. 

Dad:	A lot of people were totally against it anyway so they didn’t really know how it would catch on did they?

Pete:	No, that’s right.

S:	Does it cost you to send someone round with your shopping list.

Pete:	Does it cost what?

S:	Do they charge you for the privilege of someone walking round?

Pete:	They charge you a flat fee of £5 including delivery.

S:	So whoever is doing your shopping doesn’t get paid an awful lot

Pete:	I think the £5 is.

Mum:	Just a token.

Pete:	It’s to stop people just ordering a packet of cornflakes or something.

Mum:	£5 would be six maxi whopper things wouldn’t it?

Pete:	Let me just push this thing about personal information a bit further.  One thing that is interesting about it is because they know who you are and your history as a consumer they’ll be able to offer you particular prices for goods based upon your past purchasing.  How much you spend there what type of value added goods you buy that sort of stuff.  So, if you push that to its conclusion, if a lot of this kind of shopping is done, then there won’t be so much public prices for goods.  The price of the goods will depend on your relationship to that particular retailer.  Were as at the moment what we’re used to is prices are a public thing.  Anyone can find out how much things cost, it costs me the same as it costs you, if you walk into a shop you pay it.  Is that an isS that might be of concern?

S:	I think it is a daft idea.

Pete:	Why?

S:	To have different prices for different people, surely it means the richer you are the richer you’ll stay.  The more you spend the more you’ll save.

Dad:	It’s the same with a lot of things isn’t it?

I:	I still think it is a stupid idea.

Pete:	I think that’s one possibility that it would lead to some inequalities to who could get good prices for goods.

S:	Yes.

Dad:	It’s happening in the supermarkets at the moment though isn’t it?  Because it’s, ‘buy two get one free’.

Mum:	How many of the little old dears who need this sort of thing could afford to buy two items.

Dad:	It’s only a continuation of what’s happening in the supermarkets at the moment.

Mum:	It’s like Grandad when he was alive, you know buy two get one free.

S:	Yea but he had the opportunity to buy three and put two in the freezer.

Dad:	Not everything keeps.

Mum:	Not only that some of these old people cannot afford to buy two, their money stretches to one.

Pete:	I think there’s no doubt that some groups would loose out, that’s right.  

Dad:	At the moment we wouldn’t because our bills are quite big anyway.

Pete:	Because you’ve got a family and you’d spend a lot of money.  But some groups would.

Dad:	Indeed.

Pete:	But what about the principal of it?  Because prices are public at the moment.

Mum:	I think they should be.

Dad:	The thing is, if you are a company and you buy a lot you get a discount don’t you?

Pete:	Yes, that’s true.

Dad:	So it’s only similar to that. 

Pete:	I mean multi buys are different, multi buys are public, as well, everyone knows that if you buy four of these you get one cheaper.

Dad:	What I’m saying is that if a company does a lot of business with another company.

Mum:	They get discounts don’t they? For their continued service.type thing isn’t it.

Pete:	Alright, have you heard about ‘mobile agents’ or ‘intelligent agents’ in computer?

Dad:	No.

Pete:	These are little programs, intelligent programs, with artificial intelligence in them.  So for example you could get a negotiation agent, that you would send out onto the Internet to negotiate on your behalf over prices.

I:	Could you negotiate yourself?

Pete:	No.

I:	See that’s the whole thing, I’d want to do it.

Pete:	Try going into Sainsburys and negotiate their prices.

I:	I suppose so.

Pete:	What I’m trying to get at is that it is a different kind of market.  It’s going to be different to what your views about it are I suppose.

Mum:	It’s hard to actually say what my views would be until I’d actually tried it.  Things sound OK in theory, but practice is different.

Pete:	The thing is, one point I’m getting at is a lot of these developments are in the background, you don’t see that on the site, but now I’ve introduced these ideas.  You could perfectly happily use the site, but if you remember because Amazon when you come on may offer you particular types of books and stuff and it’s in the background of that.leads to some of these implications.  So, there’s this thing were by they’re making the sites more and more attractive and useable but this stuff I’m talking about is in the background.  You wouldn’t necessarily realise that all this was going on just by use of the machine.  Let’s have a look at another one.  

	So this is CD Now, Do you know this one?

Dad:	No.

I:	It’s like a book shop only it sells CDs.

Pete:	A music store.

Mum:	Oh, there you go.  Both pick a CD.  What is it you like Hip-Hop?

I:	No.

Pete:	What is Hip-Hop?

Mum:	I don’t know.  What is Hip-Hop?  You kids know this, D’s not here, she’d know this.

Pete:	Is it a form of popular music? 

Dad:	It was at one point.

I:	It’s a style.

Pete:	Hip-Hop, shall we go for Hip-Hop?

Mum:	Yea lets go for Hip-Hop.  Oh you’ve gone for IndI now.

Dad:	It’s Indie.

Mum:	Oh is it Indie I thought you said IndI.

Mum:	I’ve got no items.

Pete:	A lot of these shops you have a shopping cart so you can go around the site looking at different kinds of, in this case categories of records.  You buy them and put them in your shopping cart and pay at the end.

Mum:	That would be awful though wouldn’t it?  It’s like the catalogues when you buy you think oh it’s only £2.

Dad:	It’s a bit like credit cards in general when you first get them isn’t it, you tend to go mad.

Pete:	Alright then, who shall we put in here?

Mum:	I don’t know anyone that sings Indie.

I:	I don’t do Indie.

Pete:	What is Indie?

Mum:	I don’t know.

I:	It’s like rubbish.

Dad:	It’s that memorable.

I:	It’s like Blur.

Mum:	Any information you (reading from screen)

Pete:	Oh sorry that’s a security warning about the information we are passing to them.  Someone could pick up the fact that I was looking at Indie records even though I don’t know what they are.

Mum:	Oh right.

Pete:	So, oh it says Oasis.

Mum:	Look Back in Anger.

Pete:	This is what they have got in their store.  That’s the LP, LP, sorry CD.

Mum:	Is this American, dollars?

Pete:	Yes it’s an American company.

Dad:	It’s one of the first ones that was on it, Amazon.

Pete:	Yea, this is CD Now, but this has also been on along time.  So this is their B sides.  You can er.

I:	Sound sample.

Pete:	Sound sample, thank you.  

S:	You have something that you did sound sample?

I:	That was when I was making the music.

S:	Oh sorry.

Pete:	Oh that’s it, someone had turned my volume down. (Sound of Oasis).  It’s coming from America so there is a lot of interference.

I:	It does sound better when you listen to it.

Pete:	You sample the sounds in order.  So, that’s that.  Any thoughts about that?

Mum:	It’s quite good, but I think I would rather go to the record store.

S:	And listen to it as it sounds.

Mum:	No, no.

Pete:	The quality isn’t very good.  You can get the sound better than that on the stereo version of that program; you only get 20 seconds.

I:	Usually if they’ve got good singles then you get the album, so it’s not really like you have to know what every song is like.  I prefer to go where they’ve got posters and videos or whatever.

Mum:	I suppose it’s similar to those letters we keep getting through for Jerry isn’t it?

Dad:	The thing is you probably can guarantee that this available, you go to the shops and it’s not available at the time.

I:	It depends how popular it is.

Mum:	You could probably get the back ones with this, like you were saying you can get the singles you’d wished you’d got, but you could more or less guarantee.

Pete:	That’s right, it’s the same with the books.

I:	Can you get the back singles?

Pete:	Yes, they’ve got back copies of thousands of records.

Mum:	It’s like you say with the shops you couldn’t.

Pete:	They don’t keep them.  You’re probably looking at the wrong thing by looking at the currant album.

Pete:	OK so what else shall we look at?  That’s books and records.  Lets look at.

Dad:	One interesting thing to go on that we haven’t done so far would be things like insurance.

Pete:	Yea, yea.

Mum:	Wow.

I:	That would be interesting wouldn’t it?!

Dad:	I mean like car insurance to get better quotes, our car insurance is sort of reasonable at the moment.

Pete:	Right getting quotes for car insurance.  Some of the insurance companies have a little questionnaire that comes up on screen and you can put the details of your car in and it gives you a quote.  That’s exciting isn’t it?

S:	Absolutely.

Dad:	Like I say ours isn’t too bad at the moment because we’ve had two or three things from people, the Norwich Union or whatever and after half an hour on the phone it turns out they can’t offer a better quote than we’re getting at the moment anyway.  So, Lill being the age she is it’s a quite reasonable price anyway (Ha Ha).

Pete:	That’s right.

Mum:	I’m past it now, I’m going out to meadow next week.  

Pete:	So this is Loot.  

Mum:	You can actually buy properties.

S:	Loot is a magazine that you buy and sell things.

Mum:	Oh right, I’m sorry.

Pete:	I can’t wait for my children to grow up.

Mum:	How old are yours.

Pete:	Ones nearly ten and one’s six.

Dad:	You can’t sell them on the Internet you know!

Mum:	Dad has tried.

Pete:	OK this is Loot, so you can find out what’s for sale in the paper and you can get the number.  You can’t buy it on line but you can get the number of the person selling it.

Mum:	Saves buying the paper then.

Pete:	Yea, except they’ve introduced a thing were you can’t get the latest addition, you can only get the back editions.

Mum:	Yea, because you’d stop buying the paper wouldn’t you.

I:	How do you get the currant addition then?

Pete:	Well you can pay, you can set up an account and do it on line.

Mum:	You might just as well sit and browse.

S:	It depends whether you like sitting and looking at a computer screen, but how do you pay?

I:	Switch or credit card or whatever?

Pete:	Yea credit card.

S:	For that amount?

Pete:	Yea I suppose you’d buy it for a certain period.

Mum:	You’d buy bulk.

Dad:	Three months or a year.

Mum:	like a subscription type thing which is what they wanted with the needlework thing wasn’t it?

Pete:	I suppose the advantage is you don’t have to read through the thing, it’s got a search engine on it so what shall we look for?  What do you want to buy?

Mum:	What in Loot?  What do we want to buy kids?

I:	Volkswagen Golf.

Pete:	How do you spell Volkswagen?

I:	VW.

Pete:	Yea that’s it, VW Golf.

I:	Green.

Dad:	You do realise Grandma has got one of those?

Pete:	I’m having a bit of trouble finding this Golf.

Dad:	Obviously their search engine is not very good then is it?

Pete:	Well no.  You can see that goes off and searches and never comes back.

Dad:	Obviously they’ve all been sold already.

Pete:	What about auctions, have you seen on line auctions?

S:	We’re not big fans of auctions any way really are we?

Dad:	I’d be very weary of auctions, I think they are bad enough when they are there.

Mum:	I like Boot Sales.

Pete:	There are some Boot Sales.

S:	You’re joking?

Dad:	This was a bad idea you know.

	Glass of wine all round

Pete:	Right here’s Tescos.  What do you think of that?

I:	Wicked.

Dad:	Not very impressed actually.

S:	Aren’t you?  I think the colours are quite sweet really.  It goes with the baby adverts.

Pete:	I thought that was Sainsburys.

S:	No it’s Tescos, where the Grandma goes round with the.

Mum:	Oh yea.

Pete:	That’s right.

S:	Honestly, don’t you lot watch television?!

Mum:	With baby Jesus and the donkey.

Pete:	I think they’re trying to get continuity in their advertising and the presentation of their website.

Mum:	Yea that’s right because she’s going round eating the biscuits now isn’t she?

S:	Is she?  You’ve been watching more television than me.

Mum:	Price checking.

I:	Yea you can get a loan.  

Pete:	Well they’re getting into banking now.

Mum:	Sainsburys are too, most of the supermarkets are doing all this.

Dad:	It’s because they’re open almost 24 hours a day where as the banks aren’t.

Mum:	And Insurance, they’re getting into insurance’s.  Basically you can go into a supermarket now and you can do everything.

I:	Still don’t sell cars.

Mum:	Give them time.

Pete:	As part of my nightmare journey I lost my piece of paper with your address on it and my customer ID for this so I can’t do it but we can take a look. 

S:	You lost our address?

Pete:	I did.

S:	How did you get here?

Pete:	I guessed.

S:	Is that why it took so long?

Pete:	No I went next door.

Mum:	Just as well you went now because they are moving.

Pete:	So here we are, this isn’t the actual site.  Start browsing.  Are you working in the summer?

S/I:	Yea.

S:	I’m a student, of course I’m working in the summer.

I:	I’m working 1 – 9 O’clock, I won’t be home ‘till ten.

S:	And how many hours do you get off in the middle?

I:	About three.

S:	There you go then.

Mum:	Do you want to know what he does?  About his working all day, he’s a lifeguard.

I:	It’s concentration.

S:	Concentration, there’s never anyone in the pool.

Pete:	Which one?

Mum:	Ridgeway.

Pete:	Ridgeway, I know it.  Right, so here it is.  This is the kind of thing, a typical grocery site.  It’s got categories of goods down here, so do you want to pick one?

I:	Frozen foods, definitely.

Pete:	Where’s that?

I:	About half way down.

Dad:	I suppose because they’ve got so many different types it’s not very clear, you have to really concentrate don’t you?

I:	Only if you’re old.

S:	Isn’t that because it’s one of those little lap top tings?

Mum:	I, you’ll be old one day, remember you’re 18 in November.

S:	It’s important she can read it or we’ll be ending up with all sorts.

Pete:	Here we are, vegetables, fish, meat, ready meals.

I:	icecream.

Pete:	icecream.  Here we go, bulk icecream, bulk icecream 2, multi packs, singles.

Dad:	With this one, I think we were talking about Sainsburys, does it add it up as you’re going along?

Pete:	It does on this one.

Mum:	 The only thing I would say about this is they don’t actually put the price.

Dad:	That’s just the categories.

Mum:	Oh I see, sorry.

Pete:	That’s one of the problems about these sites because these titles, bulk icecream 1, how do you know where to look for the one you want.

Mum:	I’m not being funny but if you were doing a shop you wouldn’t have time would you?

Dad:	Mind you you’ve got product search 

Pete:	That’s true, you can do a general product search.  Which one shall I do?  Regionalised screen

I:	Yea go for regional.

Dad:	It might have Cornish icecream.

Pete:	There we are, Snow Crests, what’s that Snow Whipped Topping, that’s not regional.

I:	Corneto, that is.

Pete:	Mr Wracks Super Scoop Desert icecream Vanilla, 1 litre.  Anyway you get down to that level you get to see some goods and then you can choose one, you can put it in your basket.  You can’t do it on this site.  You have a thing here where you can put the quantity.

Mum:	You have to enter the number of items you require?

Pete:	Yea right, then it adds it to your shopping list basket.  You can’t do it on this site because it’s a demonstrator.

Mum:	As you are a guest you can not order.

Pete:	That’s it.

S:	And she hasn’t got her glasses on either.

Mum:	I know, shut up you.

Pete:	That’s how you do it and you can do a product search.

Mum:	I don’t think this is fair you know.

Pete:	What’s not fair?

Dad:	Not being able to order.

Mum:	Yea.  The least you could have done is the weeks shopping for me.

I:	Is there like pizza delivery on this?  Or is that a silly question?

Pete:	I don’t know if you can get pizza delivery, that’s a good question.

S:	Pizza delivery from Tescos.

Mum:	Well no, it wouldn’t be from Tescos would it, it would be from Pizza Hut or whatever.

Pete:	That’s a good question actually because most of the places we’ve looked at have been multiples, large scale companies.

S:	But Pizza Hut is a big company.

Pete:	Yea that’s true, shall we see if we can find it?

Mum:	Yea why not.

S:	Don’t encourage him.

Mum:	He’s paying.  Can you imagine it, he’d lay in bed on the net ordering pizzas all day.

I:	Hardly I’m at work nearly every day.

	(laughter)

I:	I correct myself, every day.

Pete:	Brownsville Pizza Hut?

Dad:	Sounds a bit American to me.

Pete: 	I think we’ve got the American site.

Dad:	That is the trouble actually with some of these.

Mum:	That’s why you get fed up with it, it’s all for Americans isn’t it?  We found that with universities.

Dad:	With some of the searches you can do this plus that.  Maybe you can do not American

Pete:	I’ll put Pizza Hut, London in.  London Heathrow Airport Terminal 1, that’s not much use to us is it?

Mum:	They probably deliver.

Pete:	Maybe we can get to the others from there.

Dad:	If you’re that desperate you can order it on Access or Visa at 99.9%.

Pete:	Yea.

I:	How about Chinese Takeaway?

Pete:	I don’t think Chinese Takeaways will be on.  There’s another isS about who can afford to be on here.

Mum:	McDonalds was on it.  Did I see McDonalds?

Pete:	Yea but we can’t get anywhere there’s no links, it’s just a list.  You’ve done universities but you’ve done it.  There’s a website which is a map of all the universities and you just point on it.

I:	What a map of England?

Pete:	It’s an active map.

S:	Yes, I used that at school, I can’t remember what it was called though.

Pete:	I think it’s actually done by Leeds, it’s done by Leeds.

S:	Really.

Pete:	The map itself.

Mum:	Was it at school or Uni. You done it?

S:	It was at school when I was looking for Uni.’s.

Pete:	Alright, what else shall we look at?  Do you want to do insurance?

S:	Before you disappear and get our money

Dad:	You didn’t loose that on your nightmare journey?

Pete:	What have they been looking at?

Mum:		Is this not your computer then?

Pete:		It’s the projects computer.

Mum:		Do the insurance’s then.

I:		No.

Mum:		Yes.

Pete:	Alright, I think you’ve seen enough sites, I’ll just log off.  All right, so what do you think?

S:		About this?  I still wouldn’t use it.

Pete:		Why not?

I:	For the back isSs I would, but when they’re away next week, I wouldn’t go shopping on it.

S:	I’d rather go to the shops.

Pete:	Why do you say that?

S:	Because when I go shopping, I go shopping, it’s something to do with the day.

I:	It’s a day out.

Pete:	Yea, it’s a day out.

Dad:	It’s going to avoid all the queues and things.

Mum:	That’s right.

S:	It depends when you go.

Dad:	You could order something in 10 minutes here and it’s and hour and a half trip otherwise.  It’s got its benefits.

Mum:	I personally wouldn’t use it, I’d forget half the things I need and I’d have to re-order all the time.

Pete:	Right.

Mum:	Although it would cut down on the shopping bill.

Dad:	It would cut down on the impulse.

Pete:	Do you think that’s right, because the list sites are a bit boring aren’t they?  I think that’s right; it’s all most for careful shopping.

Mum:	Which would probably be a good thing.

Dad:	The other thing is, when you go to a shop, you go to maybe two or three shops.  If you pass another one you might suddenly remember something you need to get, whereas you wouldn’t know where to look on the Internet.

Pete:	Right.

Mum:	You see I also tend to shop at different places.  Like I shop at Asda I shop at Iceland’s, I popped into Sainsburys and Tescos this week.

I:	Also when you’re walking past shops, I didn’t know when Tottenham’s new shirt was coming out, I walked past a sports shop and there was a big sign saying out today.  You wouldn’t know that on there.

Pete:	No, that’s true.  You’d have to go to that particular site to see it, that’s a public thing about shopping.

I:	If you’re just walking through the shopping centre.

Mum:	I think if you worked all day, whether you’re a couple or whatever, it would be ideal.  If you say you’re home by 7 and they deliver it at half past or something, you’re saved that, oh I’ve got to go to the shops now.

Dad:	Or even if you’ve got bulky stuff.

Mum:	I will admit, it’s a different thing but a similar sort of thing is Iceland’s home delivery.  I can get down there in the morning, do my shopping pay for it and John then delivers it for me when I’m finished work and I’m guaranteed.

Dad:	You used to do it on your way in to work didn’t you.

Mum:	Yea, that’s a similar sort of thing.

Pete:	It’s convenient basically.

Mum:	Yea, I didn’t have to have the food in the back of the car while I was at work.  He delivers it straight from the back of a refrigerated lorry and I’m guaranteed my shop.

Pete:	Do you think it’s going to be a limited take-up for this sort of thing?

Dad:	Initially, I dare say long term it’s really going to catch on.  Like computers in general isn’t it?  Two years ago scarcely anyone was using the Internet and now.

Mum:	Everybody’s on it.

Dad:	Everybody’s on it.

Mum:	To be honest, like I said, when we first bought the computer upstairs I couldn’t even turn it on and now to sit here and talk about the Internet.

Pete:	OK, great, I think we’ll stop there.  Thank you.


Ut36

ut36, ABC1 family, teenage children, low IT

Liz:	So what do you two know about computers, do you use them at school?

B:	Yea.  Not much on the Internet at school.  Learn how to do different fonts and software and pictures and stuff.

Liz:	OK.  Do you kind of write stuff, use a word processor/

B:	We’ve done stuff on Microsoft Excel, we’ve done stuff like making a profit and formulas and stuff.

Liz:	So maths then?

B:	Yea.

Liz:	Do you have to type things on computers or can you hand write stuff.  Do lots of people use computers?

B:	Yea.  At school yes, at computer club that lots of people go to, to do their homework and stuff.

Liz:	Yea, and are you into it or not bothered?

L:	Not bothered really.

Liz:	Have you had a go on the Internet at all?

L:	Not at school no.

Liz:	Friends?

L:	Only on the chat line.

Liz:	How was that?

L:	Good.

Liz:	OK so what have you heard about the Internet, is there stuff you’ve heard, either of you, is there stuff you haven’t had the chance to do?

L:	No, not really.

Liz:	Do any of your friends have access to the Internet at home?

B:	One of my friends does.

Liz:	Yea?

B:	He does lots of stuff for homework on it and looks at stuff about Eastenders and Coronation Street and football.

Liz:	Right, what about your friends?

L:	Homework and chatting.

Liz:	What about you, what do you know about computers?

Dad:	I use them for work.

Liz:	What do you do?

Dad:	Council.  I haven’t been on the Internet, never tried it.  I’ve seen someone on it; I haven’t used it personally.

Liz:	What’s your impression from what you hear?

Dad:	About the Internet/

Liz:	Yea.

Dad:	It’s a way of getting up knowledge and news and whatever, I’ve never tried it though, one day I’ll get round to it I suppose.

Liz:	Yea, but you don’t need it a work?

Dad:	I don’t need it at work, no.  We have got it at work but I don’t need to use it.

Liz:	So what sort of things do people use it for at the Council?

Dad:	The Internet, he uses it to send memos to other people and get memos back and he managed to send some computer software down the line.  I don’t know much about it.

Liz:	That sounds about right.  Has any of you heard about shopping on the Internet.

Mum:	Yea.

Dad:	I thought you might have.

Liz:	So what have you two heard about what you can buy?

B:	Mums heard more about it.

Mum:	I know you can do it.

Dad:	What can you shop for, anything?

B:	You can go down the aisles of supermarkets, it costs more though.

Dad:	Does it?

B:	You pay to go on the Internet and you pay for delivery.

Dad:	How quick is it, it must be quicker, saves time.

Mum:	I heard someone at work got flight tickets on the Internet. They said it was so easy.

Liz:	Didn’t have any problems or anything?

Mum:	No that’s what they said.  Somebody today at work, she was on the Internet, the BBC proms, she looked to see if there were any tickets left and she booked one.  So it’s all out there.

Liz:	So what do you imagine it would be like, do you know what other things you can get?

Dad:	Shopping you mean?

Liz:	Yea, what sort of things you can buy or find out about.

Mum:	I know what they were going to do, I don’t know if they’ve got it, going through a supermarket.  I saw you can go up an down the aisles and zoom in and pick out what you want.

Dad:	You can get almost anything now, Cinema tickets you can get.

Liz:	Yea.

Dad:	Holidays, you can go straight to the hotel and see if they have any vacancies and book straight direct.

B:	I heard today on the news that they have got Argos on the Internet so you can go through the catalogue.

Mum:	Oh, they put some on the wrong price, so it was like £3 a television.  I know you can look up loads of information. 

B:	I heard you can look up the weather forecasts.

Liz:	Yea.

Dad:	Sounds like you can do everything on it.

Mum:	Chatlines.

Dad:	L’s already mentioned it.

Mum:	She did that with a friend, so did you didn’t you B?

B:	No I done that at school.

Dad:	You tried to get into one of the naughty channels.

B:	No I just went into it by mistake.

Dad:	By mistake, yea.

B:	It’s true.

Mum:	They looked up something else and just went into it.

B:	I’m in pet pals at school.

Mum:	At school.  I work at school and they only got the Internet last year and at the end of term all the kids could go on it.  We could go on it.  The teaching staff or sixth formers could go on it and now everyone can go on it.

Liz:	So there’s no restriction on it?

Mum:	No it’s a school link so they can’t get on certain things, it’s mainly for information they can look up.  He got onto BBC today.  We tried to get out tickets for Party in the Park through it but we couldn’t get through.  I don’t know how to do it I get someone else to do it.

Liz:	Why don’t you all have a go.

Mum:	Are we on it now?

Liz:	No not yet.

Mum:	My brother is going back to Australia and he’s given me his e-mail address.  I wonder if you could do it from school, I wonder if they’ll let you e-mail abroad.

B:	I would only cost about £100.

Mum:	It doesn’t it’s really cheap.

B:	I’ve got an e-mail address.

Dad:	Have you?

Mum:	At school, we all have, you have as well. 

Liz:	Are you familiar with this page outline?

B:	Yea.

Liz:	So what does it do?

B:	It can exit the screen, make it bigger, you can do stuff at the top like file, edit, make stuff bigger, smaller.

Mum:	He’s been at it less than a fortnight, he’s very good isn’t he?  He uses it; the younger ones are encouraged to use it a lot more.

Liz:	Yea.  What about chatting how do you get to chatting on here?

L:	I don’t know how you do it.

B:	Is this on the Internet?

Liz:	Hopefully in a minute.

Dad:	You’re not connected yet.

Liz:	No.

Mum:	What is this, why are we doing this?

Liz:	I work at University College and we’re trying to find out about what people think of the Internet when we show them different sites.  We’re interested in the shopping thing mainly.  When the Internet started a few years ago it was quite basic and suddenly it’s become like it is.

Mum:	There’s one thing I don’t like, especially for us because we haven’t got a computer, because I work in a school I have access, most people working have that.  We have them all over the place so I am pleased that they do have it in our school.  Apparently people say that we have a lot more than at other schools, they’re everywhere and they’re all linked up now and our school are lucky that they have so many.  We’re based as a technology college so we get a lot of extra funding.  So many things say you’ve got to go through the Internet, e-mail, like there’s a programme on it’ll say the writer will be on line.  I just think that if you haven’t got it which obviously we haven’t, it just makes it, you’re very much conscious that you haven’t got one and there’s so many things you miss out on.

Liz:	That’s just changed quite recently in a way because that sort of stuff after TV programmes where it’s like visit our website has happened quite recently.

Mum:	It’s in your face the whole time now and we’re much more aware.  Apparently through cable they’re going digital and you can go through on there.

Dad:	It’ll be tuned in upstairs.

B:	What channel?

Dad:	6.

B:	How do you change channel?

Dad:	You just press the button like you do 1 ,2, 3, 4, 5.

Liz:	OK, so this is like a list of some of the websites.

Mum:	Oh, BBC on line.  Diesel, what’s Diesel?

Liz:	It’s some shopping sites.

Mum:	Oh Diesel clothes, oh right.

Liz:	You have to use this, it’s like a normal mouse except you have to move your finger to move around, it takes a bit of getting used to.  If you scroll down the list and see what you fancy.  That’s it left hand mouse button.  CD’s.

B:	Where?

Liz:	That’s an American music website, you can buy CDs and things.

Dad:	You buy in American dollars do you?

Liz:	Yea, you pay for these things with a debit card.

Dad:	Do you get to hear it to see whether you like it first?

Liz:	Yea, you get to hear little extracts.

Mum:	New release, Britney Spears interview or do you want us to go to In the Store?

Liz:	You go where you like.

B:	Britney Spears.

Mum:	If that’s highlighted does that mean you can click on it?

Liz:	Yea.  There you go, it’s telling you how you can buy it  That little thing means you should be able to hear a sound clip.

Dad:	What are you doing now?

Liz:	Just turning the volume up so you can hear Britney Spears.  This a bit of software that activates when you click on it. 

	Sound of Britney Spears singing.

Dad:	So you can’t hear the whole song?

Liz:	No.  It tends to be lesser-known people so record companies can let their artists be known.

Mum:	Are people downloading or coping.

Liz:	Yea.  You can search for people on here.

Mum:	Search for George Cloony.  Michael Owen, Leonardo.

Liz:	This search bit is within the CD site.  So if you wanted something else there are search engines.

B:	Go to httpp//.Sweet.com.

Mum:	What’s that?

B:	That’s South Park.

L:	Can we look up Eastenders?

Mum:	CD she said so it’s got to be music.

Dad:	Well if you come out of there you can search for something else.

Mum:	How do I do that?

Liz:	Well to search, 

B:	If you go to find.com.

Mum:	You’ve only been back at school a week.

B:	Mr Simpson told me that if you go to find.com it will have everything and if you type in Eastenders, like TV, and it will come it with all the TV programmes.

Liz:	There’s lots of things called search engines.

B:	What’s that?

Liz:	It’s the code at the end of what we’ve just looked at.  Yahoo is a sort of search engine.

L:	It’s a chat line isn’t it?

Mum:	You’ve got that at school haven’t you?

Liz:	It sort of does everything.  If you try typing it in there.

Mum:	Oh there’s a lot.

Liz:	Not surprisingly.

Mum:	Eastenders fan page, official site with live pictures from Albert Square, update with the latest goings on.  BBC on line, you’ve got to speed read these.  Not so many people on it tonight, they must be all busy watching it.  Carol makes Dan pay for his indiscretion.

Dad:	I can’t believe people are watching this.

Liz:	You’re not a fan then?

Mum:	Emmerdale, you can go to their website!

Liz:	Is that Jamie?

Mum:	Ugly.

B:	If you want picture two you go to picture two.

L:	That’s a nice one, that’s nice.

Mum:	Middle one?

B:	Middle one I think.

Dad:	Who’s that?

B:	Jack.

L:	Jamie, Grant & Phil’s nephew.

Liz giving instructions

Mum:	You’re like a trainer.

B:	Go back to page and then we can click on the other pictures.

B:	L, after this it’s my turn.

L:	Yes.  Urr, he looks skinny in that one.

B:	He’s a skeleton.

Liz:	How about shopping L, would you be interested in that?

L:	Not food shopping.

Liz:	No.  Clothes shopping?

L:	Have they got that on here?

Liz:	Yea, probably.

B:	It’s my turn.

Mum:	No she wants to show L clothes shopping.  Is this your own personal one?

Liz:	No it’s works, I wish.

Dad:	Is it a good one?

Liz:	It’s quite good yea, it keeps changing, it’s fairly good.

Dad:	 You buy one and the next day it’s out of date.

Liz:	Yea you sort of trade off what you want I think, you can have more memory, you can run more things.

Dad:	Delph is quite a good make isn’t it.  They’ve just started selling things over the Internet or by phone order, so it keeps the prices down.

Mum:	Is this a CD as well.

Liz:	Yea, this drive here is for normal little hard discs, but you can take it out and put a CD drive there.

Mum:	Oh right yea.

B:	What’s happened?

Liz:	I don’t know what’s happened that little thing has just come up.

B:	Press control/alt/delete.

Liz:	Go on then.

Mum:	This is amazing, I can’t believe he just knows.

Liz:	Oh here we go players programme.

Mum:	How did you know that?

Liz:	Fantastic.

Dad:	Because he’s clever.

Mum:	I’ll have to go to the RT teacher and tell him how impressed I am with the first year.

Liz:	I just want to get rid of this picture of Jamie from Eastenders.

Liz:	Right that’s it.

Dad:	Are you going to have a go now?

Mum:	We’re going to do some shopping first.  What sort of shop?

Liz:	I’m just seeing what we’ve got that you might like.

Dad:	Clothes shopping or jewellery shopping.

L:	Mum, they’ve got a Marks and Spencer’s.

Mum:	Marks and Spencer’s.

B:	Sainsburys, can we go to Sainsburys please?  Top Shop.

Computer:	You have new mail waiting.

Liz:	Thank you for that information.

Dad:	Does that mean someone has sent you an e-mail does it?

Liz:	Yea.  It’s like you were saying earlier about the e-mail, you can have it part of the Internet or separate.

L:	We’ll have to get this.

B:	You just want it so you can stay in all day.

Mum:	Or you go into class in school and you log on and you use all their phone bill and all their.

L:	I haven’t got time at school.

Mum:	Do it at lunchtime.

Dad:	Top Shop, France, Top Shop….

Liz:	Globally.

Mum:	Don’t forget to check your size in the fitting room, oh my god!

B:	How can you check your size?

Mum:	They’ve got them all in stock and everything.  This is your shopping basket.  (Reading from screen) As you buy items from the catalogue they will appear here to remind you.  This is amazing.

B:	Look you can swap the colour.

L:	Is this free?

Mum:	I haven’t spent anything yet.

B:	Click on next.

Liz:	Lets have a go at buying something.

Mum:	Just hide your credit card.  Urban combats, sharp suits or dressed to thrill.  Urban Combats.

B:	Click on it, no the white bit.

L:	I like those.

Mum:	You won’t be spending much.

B:	£72.

Mum:	Where does it say that?  Sleeveless funnel neck top £60.  Don’t rush do they?

Liz:	No, it’s quite slow, especially at this time of night because it’s cheaper.  It goes with your phone rates, so it’s cheaper after 6 pm.  Most people who use it at home will use it then.

Dad:	How much is it?

Liz:	To have Internet access?

Dad:	Yea.

Liz:	It used to cost 5 or 10 quid a month and then your phone calls.

Dad:	There’s free ones now.

Liz:	Exactly.

Dad:	How much is a phone line?

Liz:	Just the cost of a phone call.

Dad:	How much is a phone call.

Liz:	It’s local rate, it’s all local rate.

B:	What’s local rate/

Dad:	Exactly.

Liz:	It depends on your phone company I suppose.

Dad:	What if you e-mailed your uncle in Australia, that wouldn’t be local rate would it?

Liz:	Yea that’s why it’s so popular.

Mum:	Much cheaper than fax.

B:	He’s not our uncle is he? He’s not Mums brother or your brother.

Dad:	What?

B:	David, he’s our great-uncle.

L:	Mums uncle.

Liz:	this is if you have top shop catalogue.

Mum:	Oh we don’t want that bit.

Liz:	Why don’t you try to choose a label instead.  You’ve got a choice of three.

B:	You don’t have to bang it so hard, it’s only a little thing.

L:	I want to know why the new computers are massive and this is only little.

Mum:	Because this is a lap top and hasn’t got as much memory on it at all.

Liz:	They probably need to be quite heavy duty if they’ve got lots of people using them as well.

Dad:	Try and buy it L.

Mum:	Which one, crinkle dress?  Animal print?  That one.  Are you buying it?

Liz:	No I’m just showing you what it would be like if you had a credit card, not further.

L:	Fitting room.

Mum:	What’s fitting room?

L:	Just click on it and find out.

Mum:	OK, communal fitting room.

Dad:	I thought you saw a woman changing into a dress.

Mum:	What about the colour, (reading from screen) simply match the colour code with that on the shopping page.

Liz:	You have to go back to shop presumably and type in PIN.  Maybe you have to go back again.

Mum:	To previous page.  There’s no assistance.  Oh I’d loose my temper.

Liz:	Yea, it is very slow.

Dad:	It doesn’t matter what size L, just buy it.

L:	I am.

Mum:	what do you click on now?

Dad:	Add.

Mum:	Where’s add?

Dad:	There.

B:	Can you see perfectly well.

Dad:	Got my eyes open.

B:	You’re as blind as a bat anyway.

Dad:	Who is?

B:	You are.

L:	Is that how long we’ve been on it?

Mum:	Yea.  It will be interesting when we get our phone bill to see how much it did cost.

B:	L after this it’s my go.

L:	Yes.

Liz:	Did you say you’ve got a cable phone?

Mum:	Yes.

Liz:	It might be cheaper than BT.  It states that all evening local calls are free.  That’s why the Internet has taken off.

Dad:	Because it’s free.

Liz:	Yea.

Mum:	They say you can get it through the cable television soon that’s why we’ve just got cable television.

Dad:	You have to put in your credit card.

Mum:	Size 14, Crinkle dress, £30.

L:	And £1.95 postage.

Mum:	Arrh.

Liz:	Yea, you’d think they’d be offering it free.

Mum:	I don’t know why they do that with postage.

Dad:	They’ve got to post it and it costs them money.

Mum:	Hang on, hang on.

Liz:	If you just scroll down L, just so you can see what sort of information you have to give and that sort of thing.

Mum:	Don’t they have a thing about no putting credit cards on the Internet though.

Liz:	Some places you do and some you don’t.  There were lots of worries about it initially that it wouldn’t be safe, that people would hack into it and steal your credit card number but it hasn’t really happened.  There haven’t been any reported cases and now when it’s sent it’s scrambled up.  They use a code to scramble it up and when they get it they de-code it.  You can make it more safe by sending it through a third party, so you’d send the information to a person who’d scramble it, there are various security measures.  But most people who operate on the Internet, like Ticket Master, it’s probably where your friend got her tickets.

Mum:	I don’t know.

Liz:	But you could phone them, as well as do it on line, just like everybody.

Mum:	Just go back to ‘assistance’.  You can have a go in a sec.  I just want to see what it says when you want assistance.  See their ‘assistance’.  It’s so slow.

Liz:	Yea.

Mum:	Oh right, you can e-mail them with comments.  It’s so good isn’t it?

B:	It’s cool.

Mum:	Shall I come out of that.

Liz:	What do you want to look at then B?

B:	What was that?

Liz:	CDs.

B:	I know what I’ll go to.

Liz:	He wants to go back to Eastenders.

Mum:	Why don’t you go onto Arsenal?

Liz:	That’s the weather thing you were talking about earlier.


Dad:	shall we go to the Arsenal website then? 

Mum:	Is that all right?

Liz:	Yea, no problem.  If you go there and click in there. Ww.com, I don’t know what Arsenal is but we’ll have a go.

B:	ww..

Liz:	Try Arsenal.


Dad:	A R S E N A L.

B:	What?

Dad:	A R S E N A L. 

B:	.com.

Liz:	Try co UK.

Dad:	Oh you’ve got something.

B:	Arsenal Football Club.

Dad:	Hooray!

Mum:	Go shopping on it.  Dad wasn’t interested in top Shop and we’re not interested in this.

B:	This is the Dream Cast thing.

Dad:	Umm.

Liz:	So why is that on it do you think?

Mum:	What’s Dream Cast?

B:	Their fastest player, their sponsor.

Dad:	What are you doing.

B:	I didn’t do nothing.  Oh look there’s Deano what’s his name.

Dad:	Here we go, go on the tour of the Highbury Stadium.

Mum:	Boys (Ha Ha).  Excuse us for a while.  They wasn’t interested in £30 little dresses from Top Shop. 

Dad:	That’s the Marvel Halls.  Take Monday, Tuesday or Friday at 11 O’clock.

Mum:	You’ve got a tour?

Dad:	Wednesday or Thursday at 11.

Liz:	I thought they were going to give you a virtual tour then.

B:	£4 per adult, £2.

Mum:	Didn’t you know that?

B:	£1 for Junior Club members.  I’ve been round Wembley twice.  Let’s go to.

Mum:	Go shopping.

Liz:	Yea lets have a look at the shopping.

Dad:	Why have we got to look at shopping?

Mum:	That’s what she wants to know that’s what she’s here for.

Dad:	Oh is it?

Mum:	Yea.

Dad:	I thought it was just the Internet.

Dad:	Look at the kits.

Liz:	They sell a lot of stuff on there don’t they?

B:	Babies.

Dad:	They sell babies.

Liz:	Arsenal babies.

Mum:	Have they got anything for dogs?  Arsenal Dog Mall.

Liz:	Maybe a jacket.

B:	Oh look Petie.

Dad:	Why do you like Petie?

B:	Because his hair’s long.  Look Dream Cast.

Liz:	I see, so he’s sponsored by Nike and Saga.

B:	Yes.  Under Nike it’s got Saga.

Dad:	The item is currently out of stock.  That’s a shame I would have bought you one.

B:	Oh yea, I only got a new one like a minute ago.

Mum:	What is it, a top?

Dad:	It’s the Arsenal shirt.

Mum:	What else have they got to sell?

B:	Who’s that?

Dad:	That’s Canoe.

B:	Canooo, Canooo.

Mum:	We’re supposed to be shopping.

B:	WE ARE!

Mum:	What you can buy a player?!

B:	See what I can buy.

Mum:	Get to just before you do your credit card.  I nearly bought a dress and you bought a.

Dad:	Buy a video, no?

B:	I want babies.

Dad:	Babies.

Mum:	Oh you can’t buy that, she’s a West Ham supporter.

Dad:	No she’s not.

B:	She don’t know that yet.

Mum:	Her father is he won’t allow that in the house.

B:	Arrh look.

L:	That’s what her uncle bought her only the West Ham one.

Mum:	Go on to something for you, like a tracksuit or something. 

B:	Oh look a baby hat.

Dad:	Can we get on to something you want.  More important, something that I might want.

B:	Leisure wear.

L:	Go to kids.

B:	I’ll go to kids.

Mum:	I think you’d come under youth actually, have they got youth there?

Dad:	No.

Liz:	So all these things down this side are things you can look at.

B:	Urrrh, it’s horrible.

Mum:	Try sweat shirts.

B:	It’s not going to be on it.

Mum:	Yea, sweat shirts.

Mum:	You’re not leaving it long enough to do anything.

B:	I’m leaving it on there for hours.

Dad:	You were on that when I left.

B:	I know.

Dad:	Are you stuck?

Liz:	I think he’s getting a bit confused.

Mum:	I think you’ve clicked too much.

Dad:	Go to chat, can we have a quick chat.

Liz:	Of course.

Mum:	 Who you going to talk to?

Dad:	I don’t know.

Liz:	So do you have to click on the picture to start chatting?

Mum:	They always seem to have these things down the side.

Liz:	It’s sort of like a menu really.

Dad:	Go into there.

Mum:	It’s doing something.

Liz:	Yea, it’s loading slowly.

Dad:	Loony Gooner, he’s put something on.  Go to that one there.

Mum:	The first one.

Dad:	“Got to go out to eat”.

Mum:	Go to the arrows.

B:	I want to choose.

Mum:	I don’t think any of these are quite suitable.

Liz:	For young boys.

Mum:	I think we’ll go out of chat, let’s go to shopping.

Liz:	Why don’t we look at, do you want a go?

Mum:	Yea, shall I have a go.

B:	Oh L had longer.

Mum:	Shall we have a look at Sainsburys.

B:	Ohh.

Mum:	You can have a go at school tomorrow.

B:	No I can’t, they won’t let me on that.

Mum:	Yes they will. 

B:	No they won’t.

Mum:	This is for all of us darling.

Liz:	If you go on that heart thing and click on that, that will bring up all the other sites.

Mum;	Come on, let me have a look.

B:	I’ll get onto shopping.

Mum:	No, let me do it please.

B:	L has longer always.

Mum:	This is sensible now, I’m being serious.

B:	It’s just here, under Marks and Spencer’s.

Liz:	Let her have a go, I just want to give you all a chance to have a go.

Mum:	How long have we been on it, 37 minutes.

B:	I’ve been on it for 10 minutes.

	All talking over each other

Liz:	That’s interesting as you were saying about cable earlier, you may get conglomerates of different groups, so you may get say the top 20 websites.

Mum:	They said it’s not going to be as versatile as this but it saves the phone line and there’s so may that I don’t want, I don’t need.

Liz:	Yea.

Mum:	I don’t know how to move the mouse.

Liz:	Just use your fingers like this.

Mum:	Home shopping.  Yea.  How do you click?

Liz:	Use the left hand button.

Mum:	Did that click on it?

Liz:	It looked like it worked, oh maybe not.  What’s going on?  Oh it looks like it’s still loading.  If you go to information and click on that.

Mum:	Sainsburys order line.

Liz:	It’s very slow though.

Mum:	What does that mean?

Liz:	It usually means it’s active, it’s searching, it’s actually doing something.

B:	Mum’s broken it, nothing to do with me.

Dad:	Tried to blame you eh?

B:	Yea.

Mum:	There’s so much here.

Dad:	That’s not supposed to happen I take it.

Liz:	No.

B:	I broke the computer.

Liz:	Looks like it’s control/alt/delete again and see what happens.

B:	9th of the 9th 99.

Liz:	Oh don’t I’ve been worried about that all day.

Mum:	Have you?

Liz:	Yea.  OK, I will try to load that again, but what do you think of it?

B:	Cool.

Dad:	Good, it takes a bit of getting used to.

Mum:	Getting into Arsenal helped.

Dad:	A bit long winded but.

Mum:	You can see why it can be compulsive.

L:	Yea.

B:	What does that mean?

Mum:	That you’d be on it all the time, you can’t get off.

B:	You Mum.

Mum:	I haven’t had a go yet.

B:	I had ten minutes, L had the rest.

Dad:	What is it you’re trying to do?

Liz:	We’re just trying to find out about the shopping thing, whether it will take off.  I mean some people love shopping, nothing for them could replace how much they enjoy going to the shops. 

Dad:	You’re joking.

Liz:	Some people love it.

Mum:	Even Sainsburys?  Mind you, you can shop on it at any time can’t you?

Liz:	Yea.

Mum:	Like this weekend II can’t really go I’m limited.  Like late at night, I know it takes time and you have to go through it, but not to have to actually go to the shops, excellent.  It must be wonderful.  I think you’d actually spend less because you’d just get you basics, you won’t sort of mooch.

Liz:	Yes, you could have a shopping list that you store and use the same one every week.  What about other things, like clothes shopping, do you prefer going to the shops? 

Dad:	It’s like a catalogue isn’t it?

Mum:	I suppose it is.

Dad:	You don’t know what you’re getting until it arrives.

Mum:	If you’re looking for a specific thing, like you wanted a black cardigan, you can go into somewhere like Marks, for a basic thing.

Dad:	How do you send it back, is it simple to send things back? 

Liz:	I think most places it is like catalogues.  I don’t know, with catalogues do you package it all yourself and is it free post?

Mum:	It’s free yea, it’s all free.

Dad:	You get labels.

Liz:	I know you can send it back and with a lot of them you don’t have to pay to send it back just like catalogues.

Mum:	Also, when you go into a shop and you see it and it’s out of stock or you wish you’d bought it and you hadn’t I think that’s an (…..) isn’t it?

Liz:	Yes that’s true.

Mum:	Like if you saw something and you didn’t know whether to get it and then you sort of think, oh well I should have done.

Liz:	I think I’ll try and get Tesco.

B:	Tescos.  Does that go into colour when it’s ready?

B:	Why does it go bleep?

Mum:	Because it’s dialling.

Dad:	Is the modem inside it?

Liz:	Yes, it’s in here, it’s like a credit card only a bit thicker.

B:	See it does go to colour.

Liz:	What about the advertising on it like on the first one we went to?

Mum:	I thought when she was doing it there was too much on the screen to look at.

Liz:	Yea.

Mum:	I think after a while you’d probably blank off, you’d cut off.  You know what I mean you wouldn’t focus on anything else.

Dad:	You’d concentrate so much on getting into what you’d want to get into that you wouldn’t bother to take much notice of the adverts.  Especially if you’re not sure what you’re doing.

Mum:	Isle of Dreams, Tesco direct.  There’s so much on it isn’t there?

Liz:	Yes there is and all these things are taking ages to load as well.

Dad:	I might not have a turn.

B:	You’d better have a turn.

Dad:	No I had my turn watching you do the Arsenal thing.

B:	I really wanted to go on South Park.  Can I go on south Park at the end?

Liz:	It lets you take a little practice tour.

Liz:	We’ll visit other shopping sites like the Ticket Master thing.

Mum:	Through Tescos?

Liz:	Yea.

Dad:	I could get tickets for the Arsenal, Watford game.

Mum:	Well so far we’re impressed, very impressed but I think there’s too much on each screen.

Dad:	Is it the fact that it’s not a big computer, does that make a difference?

Liz:	I think it might be. It’s also the speed of the modem means how much information can be sent at once.

Dad:	So if you got a bigger, quicker machine?

Liz:	Yea, it means you can process information more quickly.  Which means the refresh rate of the pictures will be more smooth.  Where they’re all piling up there is probably a combination of the memory not being very big and. 

Mum:	They’re in cryptic so they can not be read by the master store, that’s funny.

Liz:	Right that’s a shame, (……) they used to do a little practice run through so you could see.

Mum:	Start by clicking here  Shall we go into Tesco?

B:	Yes, let’s go into Tesco.

Liz:	so what sort of things would you be into Mark, I don’t know if we’ll have time, but I’m just trying to think what’s on there for you.

Dad:	Em, I would have looked more at the Arsenal thing maybe, I don’t really know.

Liz:	What about stuff like.

Dad:	I’d probably be interested in shopping, food shopping on there rather than going shopping.

Liz:	Yea.  What about cars and stuff like that.  You can find information about buying and selling.

Dad:	Well no, I’m not really into cars.  I suppose it could be useful for that, but I’m not really into that.

Mum:	Bridge.

Dad:	Yea maybe, I play Bridge, maybe you can play bridge with other people through the Internet.

Liz:	Yea.

Mum:	Can you?

Dad:	Yea.  I might have a go at that.

B:	You can talk on the Internet too.

Liz:	I just want to figure out what sort of things people would use it for.

B:	Can you go through the shopping centre?

Mum:	No it won’t let us.

Liz:	It’s not like you were saying earlier were it’s a virtual supermarket.

Mum:	No, I thought it would give you more a list of stuff.

Dad:	You get a list of stuff and you have to click on it?

Liz:	Yea it’s like a list and you have two of these and you click on your basket.

Dad:	Only problem is you don’t know what you’re getting do you?

Liz:	Well you don’t have pictures.

Dad:	When you go shopping, like if you’re going for fruit, you pick out what you consider to be the best fruit, whereas you’re getting someone else to deliver and pick.  So that might be a problem.

Liz:	Another thing is that a lot websites can store information about you, sort of from what you’ve been doing on their website.  So with the CD site for example they could probably store information like you were searching for Britney Spears.

Dad:	Do you get a lot of junk mail coming through.

Liz:	They can only send you junk mail if you give them your address.

Dad:	If you require something you’ve got to give them your address haven’t you?

Liz:	Yes.  But like most things you can choose not to.  It’s more like information stored in the computer.  So if you log on again and you go back and start searching for stuff, they would keep the information that you were looking at Britney Spears and whatever and they’ll start making you offers.  Like the adverts coming up would be based on what.

Dad:	What you’ve ordered?

Liz:	Yea.

Mum:	Just for us?

Liz:	The adverts wouldn’t be just general ones that everyone gets they’d be specific ones for you.

Dad:	Oh right.

Mum:	Food Tech.  You’d use something like that for understanding nutrician, getting the balance right.  You do food tech at school don’t you?  Oh my god.  I think it’s brilliant and I can see why it’s compulsive but I also think there’s sometimes too much on a page.

Liz:	So what about this gathering of information about you, does it bother you?

Dad:	No.

Liz:	(……..)

Dad:	It’s going to be very useful, it’s certainly the way of the future.

Mum:	It’s got everything, you see its got low fat alternatives.  Things like this because she’s doing food technology, it’s better than magazines, it’s even got pictures.  If you can get copies of pictures, can you?

Liz:	Yea, usually.  Oh print yea.

B:	Have we got a printer?  

Mum:	No.  I just wanted to see if you could.  I think it’s good.  OK, are you ready to come out?

Liz:	Maybe we should do we’ve been on it for quite a while.

Mum:	Nothing to what it would normally be.  Do you want us to look at anything else?

B:	Can I look at one more thing please?

Liz:	Legal and General is good for calculating mortgages and things and Lloyds and Barclays and ticket Master, train tickets.

Mum:	It’s amazing that you see it on vans and lorries and everything is on it.  I’, just looking for something to go into.

Mum:	Radio, Capital.  Marks and Spencer’s, or do you want us to come out now?

Dad:	Yea.

B:	Let Dad do it now.

Mum:	Food, see what the food comes up her.

Liz:	I don’t think Marks and Spencer’s deliver yet actually.

Mum:	No they wouldn’t, Marks and Spencer wouldn’t do it, it’s just interesting to see.  Potato skins, look at that.

B:	Wow.

Liz:	It looks very nice actually.

Mum:	Yea it does doesn’t it?  I’d probably never do this.  I’d never have the patience to do this normally; I wouldn’t have the time.

Liz:	It would be quicker to do it at school or somewhere during the day.

Mum:	I mean I’d only go on it if I want something, I wouldn’t just go on it and have a browse.  If you went in the shop and they deliver I would but Marks and Spencer (….).

Liz:	It’s like looking in their magazine.

Mum:	Yea, who has time to sit and do that.

	All talking over each other.

Mum:	Are we doing what we are supposed to be doing?

Liz:	It doesn’t matter.

Mum:	Oh I mean is this what you.

Liz:	Oh yea, it’s just to see what people think of it when they have a look at it.  It’s quite a new thing, not many people shop on the Internet.  There’s quite a few websites were you can shop, it’s a growing thing.

Mum:	I can really see why it’s compulsive.  We live near shops but for people who live in the country who have got big stores near.

	All talking over each other (again) 
	
Liz:	It’s kind of aimed at busy families really.

Mum:	I could sit here at midnight and do my shopping in that hour I could have been gone.

Liz:	Exactly.

Dad:	Let’s close it down.

	All talking at once.

Mum:	Are you coming off.

Dad:	Yea.  We’re dialling again what did you do that for silly arse.

B:	I didn’t, don’t call me silly arse.

Dad:	He’s good at it and I haven’t got a clue.

B:	I love this thing.

Liz:	OK, so do you think it’s going to take off?

Mum:	Yes.

Dad:	Definitely.

Liz:	For all?

Dad:	For all ages, it’s got something for everybody. 

Mum:	Even shopping at Arsenal, even if you didn’t buy anything you’ve seen it and could have it for a Christmas present and things like that.  And also for people on a limited budget, say he saw a top and he could have that, you could sort of spread your shopping out over the months.

B:	You wouldn’t say that.

Mum:	I would, if you saw something you really wanted, like that Arsenal top then I could order it on my credit card.

B:	Yea!

Liz:	There will probably be lots more things like, I didn’t realise that saga sponsored Arsenal for example, but I’m sure it won’t be very long before you can buy Saga items on the arsenal website, these kind of cross sponsorships.

Mum:	Oh right.

Liz:	I bet you’ll be able to buy the new Playstation when it comes out or games or whatever when you click on it.  It’s another medium for advertising and shopping.  Also the cable thing, among the things that they will hope to do with that is instead of having shopping channels like you do now you’ll have the remote control like a mouse where you click on.  Say you see an advert for Playstation, click on and it will take you almost to like their website.  Say Sony are advertising their music, you could click on it and it would take you to their website and you could buy any Sony product or order it, stuff like that.

Dad:	It’s certainly going to take off.

Mum:	When we used to have cable television but we got rid of it.  They phoned back saying they were going digital and you can go on the net and that’s what encouraged me because I wanted it for them.  Not for the shopping because I didn’t know about the shopping, it was for them to get information.  It’s in Manchester now so we’re getting it in October.


Ut 46

Ut46, C2DE, single male, low IT I:

Declined tape – notes made after interview

PL: Hello, I’m doing a project on e-commerce and talking to lots of people about their ideas about it…
I: e-commerce? What’s that?
PL: Oh, shopping over the Internet – using computers in business to order things
I: oh yeah, right. Well it’s the future isn’t it? Everybody will do it eventually.
PL: Do you see it as a inevitable development?
I: Oh yes. Got to be.
PL: Tell me about your own experience with computers. 
I: I don’t know much about it. I’m an old man, that’s for the younger ones. I’ve got an old computer at home. Never use it though…Commadore 64…years out of date. Otherwise I don’t know anything about it 
PL: what about the business you work in? Do you use e-commerce?
I: oh it’s too late for me, I’m an old man. I write everything down, just as we’ve always done. 
PL: But what about if you were working in a similar business starting up nowadays?
I: Oh well, then it would all be computer. But there’d have to be lots of people involved. You can’t do these things on your own you know.
I: Shopping has changed so much in the last 40 years. People think it’s easy to do business but it isn’t. You can open a shop but getting the customers is not easy. Life was different 40 years ago. We used to open the shop up and people would just come in. There isn’t the market for local shops anymore. There aren’t enough customers to keep them going
PL: Well new businesses do open up don’t they.
I: Well yes, depends on what your selling. But if you 
PL:
I: Yeah and people don’t want service anymore. If someone comes into the shop I say ‘hello can I help you?’ and they just ignore me, carry on looking for what they want and then either come and pay for it or walk out the door.
PL: so people don’t want what the small shop can offer?
I: That’s right, they don’t want advice or anything like that. They’ll stand there looking for half an hour sometimes and then just walk out.
PL: Why has this changed?
I: Well no one wants quality anymore. They don’t care if it lasts.
PL: So the price and convenience?
I: People want everything in one place. So you can park your car for a start and then just walks round and get everything you need. I do it myself, I go to Tesco and I walk around and get anything I need. It’s all there. Now shopping over the Internet is the same. It’s like mail order really. You can get anything you want and they deliver it. Only problem is with if you want them to take something back.
PL: You can tell them whether they can substitute something if they don’t have exactly what you want.
I: Oh well. There you are, well they won’t have shops will they though? There’ll be a big warehouse and they’ll get the list in … ‘oh what does misses so and so want, right one of those and one of those’ – fill up the basket and deliver it to her.
I: My nephew is using it. He wants to start a business on the Internet. Don’t know what kind. But he’s thinking of doing that. It’s where the future is. There’s going to be so much expansion.
PL: right have you heard about the value of Internet companies
I: That’s right
