UT16

User trial 16, 7.12.98, ABC1 single woman, 36-55, High IT

LM: okay, what I wanted to talk about was the Internet and erm computers and Internet shopping which is what I’m doing some research on so could you just tell me what you know about computers and the Internet?
E: Er, well obviously I have a PC in the office and it does have Internet access which is limited, they don’t give it to everybody, just staff they feel might need it. I’ve got it because they think... I know enough and I was amazed at a temp receptionist and she was with us for three months and erm she told me she’s got Internet access at home and they’ve just got a camera so she can talk to her daughter in America, and I thought she was talking loads of money and I thought, God, this was a woman of about fifty, and no disrespect, she was so wired up about, I was so impressed but it did transpire her son worked for the American Air Force and... but apparently it’s a penny a minute, she’s just had a grand son and apparently they send her two pictures a day as they’ve got the camera as well and they can talk to each other, and it’s a penny a minute, it’s amazing So, I’m quite convinced I should find out more about it now
LM: So what do you use your PC for at work?
E: Erm, letters, memos, e-mail, we’re all on e-mail which is the best thing since sliced bread, saves us running around, we’ve also got voice-mail but people don’t respond to that, e-mails better, you can have a conversation without getting off your backside which is really good and erm (...) and it’s not like the telephone where you have to respond that minute, maybe five minutes later, like a conversation but with breaks in, e-mail erm, (3.5) letters, correspondence, I keep my files on it, my databases on it, requisitions, Excel, my costs for the month, I’ve got a special project going on, the Christmas party comes under my domain so I’ve got to allocate costs to that, that sort of thing
LM: So what proportion of your day do you spend using the PC
E: A good seventy-five percent
LM: That’s a lot
E: A lot, yeah
LM: So how often do you use the Net or do you?
E: I do, yeah erm daily because I’ve got a shortcut to the Times er Telegraph cryptic crossword
[laughs]
E: So I always pull that down at lunchtime Erm, I find it isn’t as easy to use as they say er I find it I send e-mail to people I’m dealing with, it’s not as easy as they say, you can get lost and erm I tend to get out of Microsoft Search Engine as soon as possible and get onto Yahoo so I know some of the things and I find it much more friendly and can go on it it’s easier for me I do erm I did think at one time because I loathe don’t get me wrong I love shopping I could shop for England, retail therapy, but I hate standing in Sainsbury’s take trolley round, put goods in trolley, take them out the trolley, put them back in, into the car, out, that shopping’s better travelled than I am by the time it gets to my cupboard, and somebody said to me there was going to be a company where you could go on the Net, place your order at Sainsbury’s or whatever and it would come up with all your things and then deliver it at home, I thought that was just, I didn’t care how much it cost, I wanted it, I wanted that thing, now if they said you could have a cleaning lady or this, I’d say I want that
LM: Well, you can do it, I’ve brought the laptop along
E: But I then found out it didn’t exist, you can fax an order and things get mailed to you but no I want something there that changed daily
LM: I’ll have to show you the Tesco’s site, I mean they deliver in some parts of London and I don’t know about this part
E: Now that to me would be wonderful What’s it called, doing business on the Net, have to forgive me, erm, I like to think I’m quite IT literate but I’m not a bore on it, is it e-commerce?
LM: That’s right, have you heard much about that?
E: No, erm as far as I’m aware just reading papers, it’s just any business on the Net but haven’t they got problems with credit cards and erm it’s big in the States isn’t it?I know because we’ve had to buy some books from the States and you go in, enter your card details and the books arrive which seems terribly easy but I did get into a panic about the credit card
LM: Was this work related?
E: Yeah
LM: What did you think of that? The whole experience? E: I wasn’t convinced at first, one of the guys was begging me to hand over the company credit card, it felt like you know pinning it up outside the office, it was fine, absolutely fine I mean I don’t understand what they’ve got going but it was fine
LM: Did you use the site or did somebody else?
E: No, someone else but apparently it’s quite easy. But I gave up when they said ‘but if you’re booking theatre tickets you give your credit card number’ and I thought this is bloody true, this is so true and I’m just being a total Luddite and I mustn’t do it. But I can see it happening and I know they use it a lot in the States
LM: Have you done any e-commerce yourself?
E: No, not personally, no
LM: (...)
E: I think erm I’m sure theatre tickets... we’ve got a, my bank have a branch in Fulham Road and it’s one of those ones that’s not a hole in the wall, but you swipe your card and go in, there’s someone there between nine and three and after you swipe the card and go in and you’ve got facilities to pay in, check account but there is a thing saying you can order theatre tickets from here, and I don’t know if it’s erm Ticketmaster but it says on the screen and so maybe it’s along those lines, but yeah, I’d be interested in theatre tickets, you know do a search and see what’s available and say tell me what you got rather than have you got this, that’s a real pain, and hotel reservations would be fantastic as well, cause I have to do the all the travel and that’s I did go into British Airways site to have a look but forget it, I mean I just don’t think we’ve got to grips with it yet It’s just Under Construction
LM: So what are your favourite sites, do you have any bookmarked
E: Just Telegraph and the ones at work And currency converter, I’ve found a good one where you just enter in what to and that’s brilliant, really good and it tells you when it’s updated, I found it somewhere and the great thing is you know it’s current
LM: What do you use that for?
E: Rates of exchange for when I’m booking travel you know they bamboozle you, Dutch Gilder, and you can’t remember everything, so it’s good for work 
LM:@ What else?
E: Apart from all the junk I get sent, we have two e-mail addresses, all staff work related and non work related, and you can opt out of non-work related if you want or bin them if you want because you know they’re... and erm er oooh a friend of mine was going to University and I got into the University of Nottingham Site and that was good, and he had to pick his elective and it was all there and he pulled it down and got all the papers That’s a good site erm, let’s see I can’t think ooh Tourist Board’s very good, the Italian tourist board Got into that in the summer, that was good, really things like that So I’d say for business, it’s mostly that because in the  UK it’s out there for information but can’t actually do any business
LM: Have you used the Net at all to do any research
E: No, can’t say I have other than holidays, I’ve gone in to have a look erm, I know my boss booked, he booked a villa in France through it, they wanted a very large house because erm, him and his friends wanted to go and he’s got three children, and wanted associated nannies and dogs and they they booked a villa in France and that was good, and although it took ages because the screen kept re-drawing, it was perfect, you know, but he printed it out and could actually see... so that was good, I think... It’s not as easy to use as you think, I mean when it says okay search, you put in a keyword and it comes out with 12400 can you narrow your search, you know, I still think we’re a bit early...
LM: Yup, okay, well 
(background)
E: I didn’t know until months ago about favourites I was ever so (...) about that We’re 
still early with it though, I mean what’s the percentage users?
LM: I don’t know, there’s all sorts of surveys, something like 15%? 
E: Really that’s quite a lot
LM: Do you have a phone socket in here?
E: No, it’s out there
LM: That’s okay, I have an extension lead
(background noise)
LM: I guess this’ll all look familiar So you don’t have a PC at home here?
E: No, I have an old Mac, but I’m seriously tempted cause we’ve got everything in the office, I’m tempted by an iMac, very tempted
LM: I don’t much about them
E: We’ve got an internal guy, puts all the systems in and he put some in for the directors, and they look really nice
LM: What’s special about them?
E: Don’t know, they just look nice I think it’s cause they’re all built in ready, CD, Internet ready, in the instructions there’s ‘open box, take out of box, plug in’. It’s really like that, plug phone socket, one into the mains and that’s it, there’s three steps to starting up So I think that’s probably a selling point
LM: What do you use the home one for?
E: The kids, I have two godchildren who come over and they do their homework on it but to be honest they were (...) offering cheap to staff for 150 quid and it’s not anything powerful but I can do work at home, the only thing I find is they keep (...) we had about,  one parent company bought over the years so they bought all their hardware with it and half were using this stuff and half were but you know when they buy they buy assets, so the policy at work is when new machines come in, but in IT they look after that and erm the policy is to filter it down and give it to staff cheap Like I say I’ve got two godsons, Charlie’s twenty-two and Luke’s fourteen but they just live up the road so they come down and use them, so this is my way of seeing them, but I can do work on it bit I have to go through, there’s software on my PC that’ll read it that’ll convert files, but if I’m doing something it doesn’t matter I don’t really require backups, just send the letter. Next time, I’ll really I’d prefer a PC I’ll try and get something with the Internet
LM: Do you think you’d use it at home?
E: I think I’d use it a lot, lot more, I think I’d invest and buy a really, really good one, but I think the iMac looks good, but something like this would be better, I could just shut it down and I could do online banking and stuff and get my mail and get into work during the day if I’m off, get my e-mail (.)
LM: Okay, well shall we have a look at some of the sites?
E: Are these some of the existing ones?
LM: Yeah, CDNow, is an American based CD store that do (...) Waterstone’s, Boots, Loot, Argos
E: I didn’t know half these things were on here, Gap online, wow Oh no I’ve got a dilemma 
LM: This is the homepage, automatically goes to that
(8.0)
E: Right, this is a good idea Store locator I’m used to the mouse, shopping bags (...) right you can’t buy from here
LM: In the States you could, just not over here, but have a look around
E: This is good. You still have to call them look
LM: I think that’s another option I might be wrong This is the customer service page
E (...) shipping options, tracking, sales and incentives This is part of my spec at work see Oh, right (11.0) That’s good isn’t it. Back. Mmm
(11.0)
LM: That mouse takes a bit of getting used to
E: It does. Gosh that’s quite nice isn’t it? Just have to (...) 8am til midnight seven days a week (...) Kentucky  
(11.0) 
LM: A list of all the stores
E: Mmm good isn’t it? So in the States you think you could
LM: Mmm, I think you could over the Net in the States
E: It’s marvellous Post-code (...) Let’s try that, go for it
LM: You may have to scroll down a bit
E: Oh, right, okay erm (...) Oh 
LM: This is a security one
E: Any information is insecure, third party, disclaimer obviously. Perhaps the laws are different
LM: That’s only your post code. Can’t believe there aren’t any Gap in SW
E: (...) ridiculous Go back to the homepage?
LM: Sure, go to bookmarks
E: Oooh, Sainsbury’s can I look at Sainsbury’s Now I am open to this sort of thing but can you see what I mean that it’s not that easy?
LM: Mm hm
E: Then I find it terribly addictive, you know just on for a moment and three quarters of an hour later I’m still fooling around with something You go off totally at different angles Sainsbury’s is this really here?
LM: Haven’t looked at this page for a while
E: Can shop from home Christmas gifts, recipes, see now this is perfect for me (4.0) I would love this (3.0) (...) E-mail, oh that’s good you can just give the e-mail rather than get drivel at home, a that’s why it’s taking so long (...) 
LM: Take tour
E: Got to find out if it’s in your area
LM: Can trial it
E: Oh, sorry... Disclaimer (10.0) 
LM: (...) E: Jog memory, erm It’s not case sensitive is it?
LM: ‘Orderline is available in your area’
E: Oooh. Yes, wow I don’t need a meeting with a shopping adviser I just need to see it, order it, it’s there deliver at seven o’clock madam, thank you there’s the cash (...) shopping advisers
LM: That’s funny isn’t it? 
E: ‘Next time you need shopping call orderline and use your personal catalogue’. To order if you prefer fax it to us or use the Internet Collect it, no thank you, deliver it 8-9pm. Same day collection only, home delivery, fine, order before 9PM
LM: Wonder if we can look at...
E: £3.50 or 5£ Home delivery Wonderful 5 pounds well spent. Shopping (...) no perhaps it’s something down the bottom
LM: (...) Mmm 
E: What was that at the top?
LM: (...)
E: Just click anywhere. How to shop from home, done that This is good, fabulous. Let’s (...) click here, take a tour (.) Ahh
LM: Ah
E: It’s normally underlined, isn’t it? Go for the tour shall we 
LM: Oh, oh, wow. Get the plug-in I suppose, shouldn’t take too long
E: I get told off for that, not to bring anything down, it’ll have a virus. Hmm. What did they call it?
LM: Shockwave
E: Shockwave
LM: ‘Download it’ Do we have to pay for it?
E: Now that would confuse me totally if it said I had to download something, I’d give up then I’d think ooh no, this isn’t easy
LM: This is going to take a while now... Yeah, in a minute I’ll show you the Tesco’s site
E: That’s good is it?
LM: The advantage is um, erm, you don’t do it online they send you a CD package and load it onto the machine, I’ve got it installed so we can go off-line and do it Oh that’s downloaded quickly 
E: Yeah, I have no loyalty to any store it’s just Sainsbury’s are nearest and they have a huge car park, although having said that there’s a new Tesco’s out at Earl’s Court and I’m going to go one night, I like to go when there’s no one around get in, get out and that’s it 
LM: Need to go back to Sainsbury’s now I wonder if it’s simple 
E: (...) all that time
LM: Mmm, hrmm
E: It doesn’t seem to be terribly simple does it?
LM: (...)
E: Shop will take your tour... See I’d’ve got bored by now, lost interest. All gone terribly wrong. It’s not letting you do anything Oh it won’t until you enter your customer number
LM: This is the tour perhaps? I think this is the tour and it tells you the first thing is
E: Enter password and customer number, no lost interest Where’s your bookmarks
LM: Do you fancy a bookstore or CD Store?
E: Berkeley Square?
LM: That’s like a mall that’s got a whole range of different shops, Amazon is a book store, Waterstone’s you can buy from
E: Oh, let’s look at Waterstone’s
LM: Yeah
E: okay, so if I was interested...
LM: At the top here is a sort of front-page you can scroll down
E: It’s Christmas so I want to find something for my godson. What can I get him? I say erm, assuming this is right, yeah?, So I know he’s interested in Art History, so is there anything new, save me trolling round the bookshop, a price?
LM: You did a title search rather than a subject search
E: Oh, right okay
LM: Use that (…) and it’ll look for anything with ‘Art History’ in the title 
E: Anything, go for it. Should have put a space there, it won’t recognise that okay. Oh that’s good so I can say, if he’s doing an essay I can look down
LM: Looks like you’ve got quite a lot of erm things Click on one of these for detail
E: Oh that’s good £13
LM: Doesn’t tell you much 
E: Note this is a secure document... good standard, ten days, right okay, so I’ve got my first order there, quantity one titles flagged, standard not rapid which would be I guess bestsellers
LM: Stuff they’ve got lots of in stock and don’t need to order
E: (...) change confirmation click button Which button? Correct total price
LM: Scroll down
E: Oh, if I keep going and ordering more and more, right UK Postal rates, one paperback £1.50, blah blah, that’s good, not too expensive (5.0) Oh that’s good, even with Switch, fantastic, address, telephone, e-mail, how good
LM: Then you just click on process order
E: This is so good, I do spend a lot of time in bookshops for friends for Christmas, that is so (.) you could (.) I just want to see if it’ll add something else to that order. I don’t understand that, I’ve got that one, so I thought, search results, is that what I want to go back to?
LM: Scroll down again, back to home Bookseeker or something
E: I want to find something add to order, maybe. Not what I want is it?
LM: You mean the little bit on the front page? Try home it should be there
E: You know where I’ve done the search, and it had a list of them and you can build up a new order, I thought I could go back again. Right
LM: You’d added it to the order hadn’t you?
E: Yes, got to the bottom, add to order clicked it, there it is, now is there something at the bottom here that says go back again?
LM: (...) carry no shopping or something
E: Yeah, I’d have thought, back again to the order, supposing you wanted to... 
LM: What’s that?
E: Er return to previous page, okay
LM: Yeah, it says you can go to front page or bookseeker, come back and it’ll still...
E Oh, right, got to take them from...
LM: How strange
E: Right, okay, Fine Bookseeker,
LM: I think that’s if you know what you want
E: Yeah It’s quite good though, I mean the hours I’ve spent recently in bookshops
LM: I’ll maybe show you the other one, the Amazon, the American one I think there’s a US Flagship site, but the is a British one, so go there because it’d be cheaper with postage and packing
E: Oh right, ‘first time click here’, ‘safe shopping guarantee’
LM: So say I ordered something from them today, my files, and go into their server, should get better (12.5) That’s what I need to do, now it should tell me the status of my order (14.5) Right
E: I can see it would be terribly addictive though
LM: Place order, there we go
E: I think that erm, the time is right for me to get e-mail now. I must be honest I’ve been avoiding it at home because I’ve got access to everything I need at work, I find I would use it so much more at home
LM: Do you think having to pay for example for subscription would that...
E: No, it’s very small, it’s not an issue I mean what is it fifteen pounds a month? It’s minimal, must be honest, I’ve got a cousin who lives in the States and when I send my erm (...) she was saying she speaks to her daughter when she gets home, I would like to do that and she said the charges are so small
LM: Yeah, you can talk to someone on another continent at local rate
E: It’s ridiculous so I think it’s time for me to do it now
(3.0)
LM: okay, this is a different site, do the same sort of search, by category, it’s got particular offers every week, gift certificates, different categories, all this sort of thing. Not that different really. Amazon is slightly different from Waterstone’s in that Waterstone’s exists in the real world
E: Whereas Amazon is Internet based so it has to be good. What’s this, click here, does it give you an overview, oh yeah, music as well, right, search, oh this is good I know, I suppose it is if I didn’t have access as easy at work I’d’ve had it at home a long time ago, but surely you must meet this a lot with people
LM: Mmm, people who use the Net do so in a variety of ways but work is a big one, which is where a lot of people find out about it first, (3.0) right, let’s get off-line
E: That’s quite good, that it’s so specific, so one would expect the costs to be right down 
LM: Yeah, they’re just warehouses
E: Just filling boxes with books and shipping them out
LM: Yeah, one of the developments that’s likely to come along is software that’ll allow you to compare across websites, ‘intelligent agents’ where you have an agent on the screen and (…)
E: So it’ll go to all the sites and contrast prices and say, no that’s way too expensive, buy from here whatever. Fantastic it sounds as if it should be illegal
LM: Obviously you could give it a spec and it’ll go and find for you
(3.0)
E: This looks nice
LM: This is the Tesco’s version, have a play with that
E: Oh, good. Why is this empty?
LM: You haven’t clicked on anything
E: Oh, right
LM: This is a checklist, these are initial categories and you can search
E: Right, I want to search for... ooh, have to click... can tell I’m not a... can’t find it, Sharwoods Lime Pickle (4.0) there it is, okay
LM: Add that to the shopping basket by double clicking on it. This is a bit tricky for some reason, added to the check list, we’ve got quite a lot, mark S for Sharwoods, it’s stored alphabetically
E: Normally you just hit ‘s’ and get it don’t you, right oh I just did it, oh, okay, don’t want you (.) Anyway it’s up there?
LM: Should be Sauces, ‘cooking, Indian’
E: Pickle, marvellous, so I want to go back to search, I suppose Go to off-license, so can I do it like that? No, okay, now I want booze, darling, booze okay and (4.5) 
LM: Looks like it
E: That’s it
LM: Not a great selection
E: No, well have to have one of these and add it to the list Checklist, fantastic, go to search again, hmm
LM: Show departments
E: Oh, yeah, okay Bakeries, want some nice, erm bagels, bread
LM: You’re making me hungry
E: I know [laughs] mmm. Imagine sitting at home, hungry, doing this, torture [laughs] Oh, cakes, danish pastries have some of those. Ah, no don’t like those, erm, go back to French erm, tempted you know, bakery, French bread, surely Must have ah (...) This is bizarre isn’t it, yes, we’ll have some of those, I think we’ll have... how addictive is this? Yeah, what happens what I’ve ordered now
LM: Well, you’d go to the Tesco website, then
E: Checklist first?
LM: Oh, yeah you can change stuff, delete it whatever
E: You can delete it can you?
LM: Yeah I’ll show you what it is
E: Have them, sure yes, I’m positive
LM: So it’s deleted it
E: Oh, so you can just go delete, don’t want those, so, oh that’s good
LM: Yeah you can keep modifying it
E: Oh, it’s got quantity as well, okay (4.5) Never mind, perhaps they’re coming through (...) for two twenty-five, you’d have thought you’d be able to delete that, here we go, highlight and delete, no, oh well okay 
LM: Oh that’s 32 now
E: I don’t want 32 Delete them now, teach them a lesson, oh that’s what I changed, New York cinnamon & raisin ones Right, I’ve done my order, I’ve done everything, checklist
LM: You can print it out
E: Ah, shopping list, okay
LM: Or you could do a say once a month
you wanted washing powder and conditioner and then you can phone, fax or send your list over the Net and I think you can go to the Tesco website
E: Can you say get my...
LM: You can send it by e-mail but the good thing about this is Tesco send you this and you’re not twatting about on the Net paying for it
E: How often do they send it and the pricing
LM: Well the pricing you can update, you can download from the website, but
E: But it can’t write to the CD so how can it...
LM: I don’t know, I think it saves it and overwrites on the hard drive or you can take your shopping list to them
E: But the CD comes from Tescos, it’s obviously already written, you can’t update it, it’s not like a floppy
LM: No But this is on the Hard drive
E: Oh right, I see you install it, I’m with you
LM: This one doesn’t deliver in my area, so I’ve never patched in, but my colleague does use it, and I think he just e-mails it So that’s that anyway, what do you think?
E: I think it’s fantastic, I really, this is in use now, I didn’t know that, why don’t they make more of it
LM: I don’t know if Tesco’s deliver in this area 
E: Sainsbury’s do it, you’d think they I’m sure a huge great Tesco’s
LM: That’s where they’ll deliver from, because the information, they send it to the nearest store
E: That’s a huge massive one, I mean I’ll have to enquire about that, get the CD, install it and order from work and have it delivered when I get home
LM: Yeah, difinitely
E: So much easier
LM: Yeah what about the other ones, erm bookshops
E: I liked Waterstone’s because it looked attractive, and I felt comfortable with it, erm maybe if I used Amazon, when we talked about it it sounded a bit bucket-shoppish, and erm, it’s the Waterstone’s name, and it’s comfy and secure
LM: Would you have any anxieties about erm using any of these
E: No, not now, I mean we use it at work I don’t know how much of a problem it is but you know, I phone and order things over the phone why would I think that’s any more secure than on the Net
LM: What about erm, if something went wrong
E: They always ask you for a password don’t they? Erm, yeah What do you mean if anything went wrong?
LM: If you say ordered books and they didn’t show up? Who would you hold responsible?
E: I’d get onto the same people and, no I’ve got no problem with that I mean I can’t see any difference between phoning and using the Net, I mean I give my credit card over the phone and I mean you know, if I did that and they didn’t turn up I’d still have to complain, I can’t see the difference between that and online except for the fact that I know once I’ve placed my order it’ll be dealt with, I mean I would fax an order, I’ve done that, at least this way I can see if they’ve got it, and I’m checking to see if it’s in stock first and the brilliant thing is I can browse, if I’ve got say 30 quid and I want to get something and I know he’s interested in this, I can browse
LM: So what sort of other things would, I mean, imagining technologies with no barrier
E: I can’t see myself buying clothes on it, holidays. Booking flights, yeah, fantastic, especially as anyone whose ever sat in Thomas Cook for hours on end that would be fantastic, I wouldn’t mind doing that, I can’t see me buying a car or house clothes or something physical
LM: okay How about if, the Waterstone’s site, what would you improve about that
E: Erm probably more information on the books, I thought that was limited, maybe I’d just picked the wrong book
LM: I think they’re all like that
E: I mean the publisher, who cares about that? Really and who cares what the ISBN number is, I’d rather have a bit of blurb about it, flyleaf stuff, maybe a few reviews, maybe a ‘by the same author’, dustcover stuff, that would be good 
LM: Some sites you can do that e.g. the CD Site we didn’t look at, but it’s similar to Amazon, if you search for something, they’ll say ‘if you like’ such and such, search for Blondie, it’ll give you everything they’ve got by Blondie and reviews of each album, and...
E: I don’t expect it to go into huge detail, but a little would be nice, just a couple of paragraphs telling me what the book was about, I mean if I went into a bookstore, I would look at the back, yeah, it would be quite nice if you could, going to Waterstone’s I love, I love buying books it’s such a nice, it’s so nice to get them and I think it’s such a shame (4.0)
LM: What about erm about intelligent agents to help you out?
E: That’s such a good idea, erm I’d like to see it first, I’m not being totally cynical but it sounds too good to be true, you put in there, okay, I want a vaccuum cleaner, this model, is that the thing it’s going to do? Say this is where you should buy it from?
LM: Yeah, I mean that sounds wonderful
E: Or you want to buy from car dealers on there and you want a new Fiat and say who’s got the best deal It sounds very good and I’d definitely use it for that
LM: What would your concerns be?
E: Just sounds too good, obviously limited because it’s just people with web-sites, you would be getting, I mean I think to work properly it’d have to been done better
LM: okay, what about erm, some of these personalised services?  Erm, they’ll ask for a lot of information about yourself to build up a profile, demographic information, range of things, how do you feel about that sort of thing?
E: No problem really, not really, I mean everybody’s records are out there on some database somewhere
LM: okay E: As long as I wasn’t saying can you give me the home address, what hours are you out sort of thing, obviously you worry, where do you keep the spare key, but yeah, you often get info like that now and it’s up to you to fill it in or not
LM: What about being unable to get to a certain service without it?
E: Doesn’t bother me at all, if it was something I wanted I’d be happy to give in the information, I mean the Tesco’s, I can’t wait to get to the office to see if they deliver in this area, if they said well, to get this you have to fill in this, this and this, no problem at all
LM: okay E: Depends on the service
LM: Some cases they’ll use it to get you special offers and say, we know
E: (...) put images down, screensavers
LM: What about giving it to there advertisers
E: You can normally say if you don’t want to receive any of this, tick the box and they give you the choice One would assume that going to a site like Tesco’s they’ll behave honourably, you hope that large organisations, but if you go to some dodgy little site asking for card details, you’re asking for it really
LM: Right, okay So you’d expect brand name to be point of reference really
E: Am I wrong, you’d expect that because they’ve got their reputations they’ll keep it safe
LM: Yeah, they have a certain amount invested in making sure you don’t have any worries
E: Not really, as I said the first time we bought books I was paranoid, but now we’ve done it, it was a breeze, I don’t mind, piece of cake
LM: Rihgt
E: Soon as M&S do it I’ll be sorted
LM: They have a website but you can’t buy online
E: No I’m very impressed with that Tesco’s one I did like the Waterstone’s on
LM: It’s good if you know what you want
E: That happens to me quite a lot, and you phone round and they say ‘we’ve got one at the Chancery Lane branch’ and you think, oh, can I be bothered
LM: okay, that’s pretty much it, thank you
E: Very enjoyable, thank you








Ut20
User trial 20, cohab couple 36-55, no kids, High IT, 25.1.99.

PL: Right (…) say who we are, I’m Pete
M: I’m M
A: I’m A
PL: We’re doing this research and it’s about, well, the Internet, and asking whether people like it, use it, know about it or whatever, so what about you?
M: Well, er, I must admit I do get off on it for want of a better word
[laughs]
PL: Someone who finds it exciting
A: We were at friends’ and we could pick up what was it the Californian Police Radio which was really weird 
PL: So someone had tuned into it and was broadcasting it on the Net
M: (...)
A: For me, e-mail’s pretty standard at work, and I work for E but when it was part of B, it was a standard way of communicating, so that was just the internal one, when the Internet had come, it was money for the company they didn’t want to take on because of the cost
PL: Right
A: Because in terms of licensing it becomes a different kettle of fish altogether
PL: Right, so they haven’t
A: They did have, our department has the Internet, they do have departments like IT where it’s neccesary, but generally e-mail, I can contact anybody as long as they’re on the B Network, that’s what we use it for
PL: So what’s that for? Is it a separate...
A: We use Microsoft Mail but we used to use erm, I can’t remember what it’s called now, an internal...
PL: Yeah package that
A: That they created that was horrendous but did do the job It was ever so basic, one colour screen, no toolbars, you had to remember the last thing you do and the function keys... then we got Mail and that’s a hell of a lot easier to use
PL: But that’s just internally
A: That’s internally but on top of that one person per person, and we have Intranet which is our message board, a way of erm, well just being able to find out what’s going on in the company, jobs and basically promotion  It’s a message board really
PL: Right. You can have your own
A: Yeah you can make a page yeah, and your own little section and how badly you’re doing really
PL: But not as bad as some of the others
A: I’m not going to comment really
[laughs]
A: Erm, yeah for me it’s been quite handy
PL: And you’ve got a PC 
M: Yeah but we’re not hooked up yet
PL: So where have you cause you said...
M: Friends, just friends
A: Go and dabble at friends, doesn’t cost us so much that way
[laughs]
M: I also like the games but other than that
A: I use it mostly at work, I mean if I want to look something up it can wait to the next day
PL: Yeah, right, there’s this home-working you can do if you get a modem, you know you can log on, send e-mails, do (...)
M: Yeah, I’ve read about it
PL: Right, right
A: Shame we didn’t have it up and running now, have to run back down to H every time, just to (...)
PL: Yeah
M: It’s nice just to log on and find other people’s input and, er, yeah 
A: Yeah, I love the whole idea, the concept, the concept of it I like technology and the way things are moving so fast like, everybody else if we want to get onto the Internet that PC has got to go, it’s too slow
[laughs]
PL: So what is it?
A: A basic 386, a very old model
PL: Right, right, but that’s fine if you’re not on the Net, 
A:  Basically it’s a word processor and a spreadsheet and it’s got a damn good game of solitaire on
[laughs]
PL: Are you thinking of upgrading at some point?
M: We’re definitely thinking about it [laughs]
A: Started investigating, our Saturdays are now taken up by PC World
[laughs]
PL: Have you been to PC World then?
A: Yeah
M: Yeah
A: Yeah, you get a bit frightened, don’t you, things move so quickly you don’t know, I mean the new thing is DVD, it’s like go and get DVD it’s got, (...) camera and scanner and this and it all sounds like, and you know a year from now someone’ll pick up the same package for a couple of hundred quid
PL: Yeah
A: So when’s it going to stop and become affordable
PL: They’re always developing
M: Yeah, but it goes straight onto the market and you can’t afford it, by the time you can the next thing
PL: That’s right
A: We were talking about this five minutes before you came, we’ve got cable, so the cable guy has just come to sweet talk us into getting a phone cause we’ve been on it for so long and they can’t understand why we’re still on a BT bill when we can have this and that and they’re talking about the Net, and we were like yeah we can get another line for about four quid and it was wow, now they’re making it sound affordable
PL: So the rental of the line is four quid
A: Yeah, I think BT charge more, you can get a second line from BT and the line rental from BT for a quarter is twenty something pounds, but at the end of the day there’s still VAT on that and then what it (...) and so many other different services
M: (...) if they can keep working the price down the erm er it becomes more attractive
PL: That’s right I think what you’re getting for your money now is amazing, the prices have stayed similar, but what you get all the time (...)
A: They are trying to sell it though, and you can see how it works on the other side soon, I’m going to work for a telecommunications company who are actually going to pay our phone-bill as part of the deal, so I will become live, we will be part of the Net
PL: Well, that’s the rest of the cost, the actual online phone-bill
A: I mean the other bill, they were saying like that’d be another nine ninety-nine a month and that’s unlimited access which sounds quite attractive
PL: Which one’s that?
A: (...) London. They were doing a special for nine ninety-nine. Was it Cable and Wireless?
M: One of them was doing a hundred pounds for life or...
A: Yeah, we’ve had so much stuff through the door it’s like, I don’t think so I mean we can’t even afford the computer, we won’t contemplate looking at the other costs
PL: Right. It’s competitive now isn’t it?
M: Very very. The other thing is who the contractor is
A: I was thinking of the people we use at work
M: Who’s that?
A: Demon
M: Oh yeah. Do you know anything about the differences?
PL: No, I mean I use some of them myself but I haven’t done a survey of which ones are best, which services you get
A: So you can’t sell us anything really
[laughs]
A: That’s what we were hoping for
PL: Right, well I’ve got my computer so I’ll show you some stuff in a minute, what about er, surfing, what kinds of things do you look at?
M: I can’t
A: You’ll laugh
PL: Go on
A: We found a humour page and the soundbites, like from favourite shows We did the whole of Fawlty Towers, cause the guys I work with a Fawlty Towers freaks, and we did get a video of this guy going crazy in his office, it lasts about two minutes but it’s just so funny [laughs] (...) we went to anything humour oriented then we grew up a bit [laughs] did some actual work
M: Radio stations, pick up vans. It’s amazing
PL: It is, isn’t it?
M: Gives you all the information on you know whatever the station itself. Or erm 
A: Yeah he kept calling
PL: This is fascinating isn’t it, all this information it would have been impossible to get
M: It is there was no way, well you could (...) or whatever
A: I still find it quite scary, I mean we, we...
M: Can pick up anything, anything at all. Must be something (...) on it all
A: That’s what makes me think there must be someone out there watching you, that it’s not just a Big Brother thing
M: The info has to be put on there so...
A: Nah, it’s a big satellite watching me 24/7, I am that important [laughs] You can pick up any old rubbish, it doesn’t have to be important
M: Anything at all
PL: There was one wasn’t there, a camera in a family’s fridge
A: That is...
PL: That’s what you see...
A: Did you see the one in the paper in America who saw a house from a shopping camera down a street or something and they picked it up and saw the house and bought it Yanks are weird I don’t care what anybody says, but to buy a house just because you’ve seen it, it’s thousands of miles away and it was raining, how could you even see it clearly and they fell in love with it and bought it
PL: They say that about buying houses, you go and feel it and if it’s good...
A: You don’t get the ambience from a photo or a fourteen-inch monitor [laughs] that was another one
PL: Do you think it’ll go that far?
A: Yeah, yeah I do 
M: Oh yeah
A: I mean is it Tesco’s who, one of the shopping online (...)
M: (...) keyboard and the TV and 
PL: Yeah that’s another thing that’s coming, the digital TV
A: I think that was part of it why haven’t you got digital TV everyone else has got it Cable so slow
M: (...)
A: I know, got a big box in the corner. But I mean online you can do your banking online, buy clothes
M: If you don’t do it, it’s going to make it so inconvenient not to
PL: Do you think that’s (...)
A: That was the next thing, you can bank 24 hours so there is no need to go to the bank unless you’re taking money out so there’s no interaction with real people anymore and I think if we’re not careful, that’s what’s going to happen and we’ll be starved of human contact
M: There’ll be no need to contact anybody else
A: People need people
PL: You night still go to the shops, I mean it’s great not to have to queue at the bank but...
A: I checked on the High Street the other day if I looked at it the High Street the way it was years ago it would have one mobile phone shop, now, there’s fourteen, three Orange, One-to-One ohmigod you know that used to be a clothes shop, but there are that many and now all these computer shops. Tiny, for instance, years ago and now everywhere you go, and PC World have decided to take up all the warehouse space they can find on the North Circular
[laughs]
M: Everybody will eventually have whatever (...)
A: (...) not everybody’s comfortable being on a computer I jumped when it beeped every time when I first started
PL: But then with Digital TV it’ll give you access to the Internet through a handset so you won’t need to be computer literate
M: I know. It’ll just turn it on, so many choices, like left yes right for no
PL: That’s not the same as being on the Internet
M: I know
A: But in essence it will be then you can bring it one step further so it’s voice activated, sit there and say TV on (...) That’s it I’d unplug everything
M: That’s it, voice activated is bang
A: When I first started as a secretary I remember manual typewriters, I’m not that old by the way [laughs] and I remember the Telex and when I say that’s like twenty year olds at work they’re like ‘what’s a telex?’
M: It’s not that long ago
A: It’s not, it’s ten years ago And that was technology, like, wow. When I got my first computer and modem, like (3.0) I was talking to (...)
PL: That’s in the office, but it’s also transforming the home, so (...)
A: Yeah, it’s encroached a lot on home life, because now I feel lazier at work because I can turn around and say well I won’t finish this, it’s on the disk, in my bag, I’ll go home, no more briefcase whereas I used to take loads of papers and whatever, you know Eastenders is on in the background and you do that work and it takes twenty minutes (...) and it does start to cross over, it’ll become a part of home life. You can’t talk to certain people at certain times, the Americans are on different times, there’s no need to do that any more cause you can leave mail for them
PL: That sounds good
A: It is, but they always send back three pages and make your life a lot harder
PL: All right, now you’ve mentioned about shopping on the Net
A: I like the idea because I’m a big fan of QVC, it’s one of the best programmes on TV It’s the Shopping Channel
M: Might as well be on the Net
A: Ring up and send it to me now, I have a credit card
PL: That’s right, I mean is that the way you’d see it, like QVC
A: Exactly how I’d see it
M: Run through the shopping list (...)
A: Like catalogue shopping on TV
PL: What about local shops? I mean this is mainly er the big shops, the multiples
M: Yeah, well technology will become so cheap for them that (...) dedicated to you know all these shops, plug in, advertise
PL: Like a local shopping mall on the Net
M: Sorry you will not have to (...)
[laughs]
PL: Some areas though you want to see the products, go to the shop
M: Yeah
A: Yeah but you can still do it, but you’ll buy from a catalogue, it’s described (...)
(...)
A: You like it, you don’t it goes back It’s bad enough with videos
PL: You’ve got PlayStation?
A: Yeah we have got PlayStation but it’s hidden, we pretend (...) We have quality time, he goes and plays and I go off and read [laughs]
PL: Of course that’s another thing if you upgrade the PC you can use it for games
M: Well that’s inevitable really
[laughs]
A: You’re supposed to say ‘no I’m buying an encyclopedia’
M: Would I lie to you? 
[laughs]
PL: All right, let’s have a look at some of these things then
A: Do you want a chair for that?
PL: Re-arrange a bit (10.0)
PL: Got a phone socket?
M: We do (...)
PL: Yeah
A: You could plug into a mobile
PL: Yeah
A: We did it, but we had bad reception at the bottom of a valley and had to drive to the top with everything
(Background noise)
A: Helen said no to Windows ‘98
PL: Yeah?
A: A friend of ours she said it’s hell
PL: What ‘98?
A: Yeah, she got it loaded and it was so much trouble she had to have it removed
PL: I’m still on ‘95
M: (...) A: Yeah, but you like it, I don’t like it
M: You don’t like ‘95?
A: I just think it’s way too much information on screen
PL: Yeah, but you can take it off (.) Now, what are we going to do, where is it, right let’s try CompuServe. Right this’ll make your phone line engaged
A: That’s fine
PL: Right 
(32.0)
A: Is it dialling?
PL: Yeah, it doesn’t make a noise this modem. We’re through, you’re all right
(11.5)
PL: okay, so, well, (4.0) Right, let’s have a look at some shopping sites
M: Yeah
PL: So do you want to have a go?
(6.0)
A: Ah, it was Tesco I was right, I’m not going to them, I applied to them for a job and they never got back to me
PL: That’s another thing, it’s not just buying products
A: (...)
M: O So I’m just going shopping, yeah
PL: okay
A: It’s not all up yet
PL: This is the web-site, but not the site you shop on, this is advertising. A lot of the sites you can’t actually buy online from, just information
A: Is that going to take a while? I thought that had happened or maybe it’s just in America
PL: Yeah, there is a lot more over there, transactions
A: We know what you can buy on the Net is Viagra, they advertise it everywhere
PL: I’ll show you can buy from Tesco’s but you don’t do it online, they send you a CD, and you do it, I’ll show you that, but why do you think shops do that, just the websites, a good example is Marks and Spencer’s It’s a nice web-site but you can’t buy
M: It’s advertising
A: Excellent advertising and previews, that’s what gets people into the shops, if you can get so and so, people will go, especially somewhere like Marks, they’ve got the season in you want to have a look without going to the shop
PL: That’s exactly what they do (23.0) Lot of Americans online (...) right (...)
A: They’ve also got their financial services on there, that’s quite interesting, because that works, must work in the same way as Barclays, they must be online, that’s where most of their money is these days
PL: We can have a look
A: Double click?
PL: See you can order a catalogue for home shopping but you can’t order online
A: That’s interesting
M: (...)
[laughs]
A: See this is so un(...) cause you’re waiting for it all to come on screen
PL: Right, right, it’ll get faster I suppose
A: Depends how much you’re prepared to spend I suppose. Get a Pentium II it’s going to be quicker
M: Ours is a little passé
A: But this is the only one we can afford at the moment so you can passé it all you like (.)
That’s depressing, life insurance, PEPs, Mum got into that last year only because she got good advice from the Abbey National man
PL: Looks like a
A: Just another place to look at for the info, there’s nothing else here, I’d’ve thought they’d’ve gone more into the banking aspects of it and try to grab you from there
PL: But it’s information isn’t it?
A: Yeah
PL: That’s quite common
A: But it’s cheap advertising for them, cheaper than a TV advert and Marks is someone you never see a TV advert for anyway so they’re that well established and this is another way of reaching out really
PL: And they have control over it
A: Yeah, they have integrity control over what goes out, so that’s (.)
PL: It’s a big advantage to them. Who else is on here?
A: Bloody Interflora
[laughs]
A: They owe me money. These people are rubbish, ‘how to order’, are you reading this? I only got this for you 
[laughs]
M: Spend more than a fiver
A: Oh you are joking, this is to keep you on-screen, they must have so many flowers. What the hell is oh so you can pick the flowers, great
M: Make up your own arrangement
A: Find flower
PL: Ah, so it’s searching for the bouquets with lilies in them
A: Oh, right
M: Oh, so it’s not a...
PL: You can customise your way into it and let’s see what happens when you buy it
A: If that comes up with 45 quid you owe me 45 quid all right 
[laughs]
A: Oh my god
PL: You can put your message in
A: Where it’s going to be sent? They’re getting nothing from me
PL: (...) telephone number
(4.0)
PL: What day you want it delivered
A: It may upset it if you’re imprecise
PL: Put 2000 in, upset it
A: You’ve not tested it yet
PL: So this is view details, you are about to send...
A: That’s good, didn’t know that was there
That’s good
M: It’s if they want other people to see it isn’t it
A: You know what’ll happen, you’ll get like a million crazies calling you from America
[laughs]
PL: This is about the overview do you think this is an issue?
A: Yes, it is, God yeah
PL: If we get through this, the next thing would be to provide credit card details on
M: Erm, yeah, yeah, tricky
A: (...)
M: There’s always a way round when it comes to computers
A:  I think it’s only going to be a problem
M: It’s not going to beat hackers
A: That’s the other thing, if you put your credit card details on there, your details are now out there in cyberspace for someone to nab, I don’t care how good the security is, I don’t think anywhere security is a hundred percent, so that’s quite worrying
PL: Well they’ve got encryption, where they code it
A: We’ve all seen the films
[laughs]
A: We’ve seen The Net, we’ve seen Mission: Impossible [laughs] It can be done
PL: He does it just like that
A: Our acceptance amazes me, I mean we’re sitting here letting you do this, our acceptance is amazing you know 
M: It’s cool
A: You think it’s cool
PL: Why shouldn’t we accept it?
A: Without questioning?
M: No, it’s not
A: Michael the way I use it because it’s there at work and it doesn’t belong to me, but the minute it belongs to you at home, you should question yourself before you accept it,  you don’t know, I mean if you bought flowers and then something goes wrong and there’s a query about the credit card can you imagine how much fussing and farting about it’d be like getting your money back, oh we’ve lost it, I mean can you save that window when you’ve put in all the details?
PL: Well, some sites are, have a thing where you can print off a copy
A: Or file it?
PL: Well it’s not really proof is it
A: It’s not (...) PL: It’s a record rather than proof
A: There you go back to telephone ordering by phone, the safest way
PL: There are problems
A: I can see more and more problems actually, the way I use it at work is different and I don’t get to have fun with it
PL: What about CDNow, have you heard of that? A: Is it a magazine? PL: No, it’s an online CD Store so you can buy CDs from America
A: Where’s that piece of paper with that song on?
PL: You can input a song and it’ll search for it
A: Really, the words of Gerry Rafferty? ‘Stuck in the Middle with you’
PL: I got put off of that after Reservoir Dogs
[laughs]
A: It is such a big karaoke thing you have no idea (.) Same shopping policy look, to Europe or the Middle East. What would we send to the Middle East, I thought we couldn’t send any more after that Supergun thing [laughs] And they could be changing to Ninja Styles or something
PL: That’s right the big tube wasn’t it. What about that, export controls and such-like? 
A: How do they control it? I mean it’s like that Viagra thing, people buy loads and loads into Amsterdam and then smuggle it through. So click here right, what shall I find? I don’t listen to pop music so I’ll have a problem
PL: It’s any kind of music
A: Title ‘Will you want me’. Where’s ‘i’ you wouldn’t think I type for a living would you?
PL: Security warning again
A: Oh, I won’t do it because I don’t know who’ll pick it...
PL: It’s okay, they’ll think it’s me anyway
A: All right then. Can they follow you? PL: Yeah, well there’s this new tracking software so when you visit a site they can track you
A: I thought you didn’t have to leave any information
PL: Well have you heard of cookies? 
A: Vaguely
PL: They’re little programs put onto your hard drive and it records where you’ve been, and when you’re online it’s two way and they can record and track where you’ve been
A: That explains why David is so reluctant to let me loose in his office
(4.0) PL: There’s a big controversy about that, about whether the user should have control of it and who owns the information Do you own it, or who put the information on there?
M: The people who put it on there I’d’ve thought
A: I agree, the people who put it on
PL: Even if it’s on your disc?
A: That’s a risk you take and an acceptance you take when you go online. There’s got to be some sort of payback
PL: But you didn’t know about cookies
M: I see what you mean, if you bought a machine
A: I told you someone’s out there with a satellite holding it up, you won’t listen, nobody wanted to hear it
PL: So did we get anything?
A: Yeah, (...) Who Am I? What I was looking for
PL: Good click on that
A: Are they giving us all his albums? Cool. Is that all the info you have?
PL: Well these are all web links we can go down those in a minute, biography...
M: Information
PL: Singles, imports, whole lot and this is what’s for sale
A: The other thing is this is done but it’s done a million times over all over the web. So you can get the same information, damn that’s cheap
PL: Yeah, cause it’s American
A: How much would it cost in erm
PL: Well you pay credit card and they just do it for you
A: Well, shipping’s expensive isn’t it? 
PL: You can actually test some of these
A: Really
PL: See here, I think
(24.0)
PL: Here we are, you can listen before you buy
A: There you go
PL: It’s going off now
[music]
PL: This is mono, but pay a bit more and you can get stereo. This is another company who store the sounds, not the one who sell the CDs so when you get the sounds you switch sites
A: Ohmigod, this is what’s used for sound bites
PL: Oh look, volume controls
[music]
M: Bloody excellent. You walk into a record shop nowadays and half the time you don’t know what you’re looking for, you could in the privacy of your armchair check through everything they’ve got, say I like that I’ll have it
PL: You only get a snatch
M: There will come the day when they’ve got every track in the store 
A: You like this more and more, I find this worrying [laughs]
M: I don’t see the disadvantage, it’s just information
A: But you’ve taken out some of the joy of shopping okay, you don’t see the joy of shopping, you’ve always had a problem with that
[laughs]
A: He thinks it’s hormonal
[laughs]
A: You are taking away some of the mystery, you go in, don’t know what you’ll come out with, it takes away mystery
PL: Interesting, I don’t know if you could reproduce it on this sort of site You can’t browse in the same way
A: Yeah, you can’t do this here, it’s nice for people who can’t get out or you’re looking for something for special
M: But you can you can just browse through your list
PL: Do you think that’s the same as going in
M: I don’t see the difference if I don’t know what I’m looking for I’m browsing
PL: Well they’re not racked up, sit on your butt with this or...
A: Look at the address, now
PL: that’s it
M: So to bring up this...
PL: Movies
A: Looks a bit Russian there
(5.0)
A: What are you going to show me?
PL: Pulp Fiction
A: Eeurgh What’ve we got
PL: Doesn’t look like much, info on Travolta you’d’ve thought...
A: If they’re going to show one of those baby films, I’ll chuck If that’s the best, oh DVD for 12.99
PL: Amazing isn’t it
A: I can’t believe how cheap it is I was in W  and they’ve got Flubber, a kids movie, it’s 13.99 on video and 15.99  on DVD, and I thought, remember when laser disc first came out and it got slated, it just was massive and whatever
PL: The size of an LP
A: And everybody was like it’ll never take off, it’ll never work, and for a while it didn’t because it came and went quickly, and then DVD
PL: DVD is going to take off though, I think
A: Yeah, next big thing, it’s CD’s
PL: Why do you think?
A: Because we’ve accepted CD’s and these concepts of small boxes that feed us acres and acres of info
PL: Technology has got to the point where...
A: We demand more and when we buy something, even if we pay a small amount we demand quality, and DVD has the ability to give us that It’s great having things on tape, having, there’s nothing like vinyl, we’re old school, but, you do demand quality, so you’ve got your beloved vinyl in a box somewhere and go and buy the same damn album on CD because you want the quality, the remix on twenty bit this that and the other, the clarity, the best of both worlds really You get that with DVD
PL: Yeah, there’s a lot of skepticism over whether internet shopping will take off as well, so erm, there are technology failures every now and again, 
A: I can’t see it because Barclay’s welcomed banking so much as they pay for ads for it, and if banks stick their oar in, everybody else is going to follow, because they’ll (...) the technology They’ll wait until somebody gets really good at it and wade in and nick it
PL: Let some people forge ahead, then...
A: Then they’ll go in and nick it
M: It’s expensive to start and as soon as the prices come down they’ll jump on it
PL: Another thing you can do on this is like weblinks like here, so where does this take us? Here we are, all the web-links
A: So you can go for more and more information
PL: Here we are Says these links take you outside CD Now, so it could be anywhere in the world that has something on it Try that
(5.0)
M: Lot’s of other people putting their information on it, so by the time you’re finished you know everything there is to know
PL: What’s this? Er
(11.0)
PL: See the idea, you can find out more from the links, sort of like lots of info as to the goods themselves What else shall we look at?
A: Do you know the thing that comes out? None of it seems like a hard sell, there is no interaction with the keyboard, visually it is, but the more info they can get to the page is the closest it gets to that
M: If you’re doing your shopping at Tesco’s, they’re just telling you what they’re selling, there’s no competition like, if you go to Tesco’s there’s no competition from Asda so there’s no need for a hard sell
A: But you think about it you’ve got all of them online, it’s going to be alphabetical, Asda’s the first one I’ll hit, Asda I’ll go to it’s got everything I want I’ll go there
PL: That’s an interesting point, I mean are people going to take the shopping now and go, which one do you go to?
A: I’m a Sainsbury’s fanatic 
(...) M: It’s not going to change because of a web-site
A: I would, you wouldn’t, because you don’t like change, when it comes to things like that you don’t like change, if I said to you I’ve got to go sshopping, and you know I do it in four different shops, because this place sells that, of course I’m going to change, because it’s the pattern I have already, I’m not loyal to anybody
[laughs]
A: I’m a Sainsbury’s fanatic because they have the best loyalty card in terms of what I get back, but I would go to Asda because they have better cake, Marks for the meat, I’ll go where my fancy takes me, Sainsbury’s for the bulk but I’ve always shopped in four or five different shop
(...)
A: I wouldn’t You don’t even look at prices, you think that’s hormonal too
(5.0) PL: What about this, Spotlight
(13.5)
PL: These were the people involved in a courtcase between them and MacDonalds 
A: Oh yeah
PL: This is there web-site
(...) [laughs]
PL: Live McLibel Debate tonight
A: That’s the 15th, ten days ago is that how long it takes to feed their (...)
[laughs]
M: No good
A: So it’s a live Internet debate, Christ that’s going to be a bit of a how do you get your info...
M: So you can actually participate?
PL: Yeah, yeah, this is an Anti-MacDonalds site
A: Put on I like MacDonalds 
[laughs]
PL: This is their issues concerned about, nutrition
A: I like the way nutritions after the ontroduction, it should be at the bottom, we all know there’s nothing in cardboard Why are animals so low down? If it weren’t for animals there’d be no MacDonalds, they ought to complain about more important things like the uniform
[laughs]
PL: They are in a way, cause there’s an employmeny thing about condition
(...)
A: MacDonalds is already in Russia for Christsakes, it’s already capitalised
PL: There the opening speech in the trial, the judgement, witnesses
A: Where did they pick them up?
PL: It’s public information, court transcripts, books about it, 
A: MacDonalds accused of blatant racism, everybody’s been accused of that, seven nuggets and you’re out, I love that
[laughs]
PL: So what do you think about that?
A: I’d definitely have a nose, just for the comedy aspects of it, but in all seriousness...
(...)
PL: What is this?
(...) A: Is it me or is that not very dark?
PL: What was it you were saying about the soft sell of the sites, soft tones and text is quite common in websites, here we are, this is it It’s another thing about the web, it’s not like advertising in one sense because anyone’s got access to it and if you don’t like it you can move on
(4.0)
A: They advise us MacDonalds don’t like trade unions So? This is Britain
[laughs]
A: Is this England? East Ham? Oh
PL: Mice in the store, not in the burgers
A: Better than the Kentucky scare where they fried the mice [laughs] How can you say it’s not nutritional? There’s nutrition in mice, protein
(5.0)
PL: You were saying about the store card, sort of, then there’s the Financial Times, and Loot, doing their thing online now
A: I saw one of the... the car one
PL: Auto-trader
A: Yeah, they’ve got it as well
PL: Yeah, they’re online too 
A: So you get more if you register, they want more money from you Search for free, my favourite words
PL: What do you want to buy?
A: Granada Big seats, leather, black Is that the company or the car
M: (...)
PL: 615 ads
[laughs]
(...)
PL: Granada, 2 litre, clean
M: No, it’s an A-reg come on
A: Oh, it’s a video player, look at that
PL: Hardly used fitted kitchen
A: That’s a bloody big car 
[laughs]
A: It’s a Winnebago
PL: I should have put Ford Granada Alloy wheels
A: Can we move on from the Capri cause some people would like to go backwards in life Had one Wasn’t the attraction, believe me Too big, 2.9
M: V6
A: Ninety quid
M: The engine
A: Just the engine, jesus had me worried
M: (...)
[laughs]
A: What did I say to you yesterday? What’s with the chick
PL: Yeah
A: Believe me I wouldn’t buy a car with a woman draped over it, I’d be busy kicking her off it to get in
[laughs]
A: Wipe her off screen, mark 2’s, cheap, 2 grand 
M: Oh, that’s why
A: Everything, MOT and Tax, everything in the country
PL: Past Watford
A: Everything past Watford is the countryside [laughs] Get away woman How much did they pay her for that? This is such a masculine looking site, all greys and browns Look put in what you want 
M: Oh, to how much you want to spend Excellent I don’t have to go driving from garage to garage
A: Oh please
PL: This is just on Loot but you can use search engines to find and specify within ten miles and which you’re interested in
A: saves you from buying the mag, one thirty and you can get it straight
PL: Yeah, these are old ads, probably gone by now
A: That’s pretty cool Can I get a newspaper on this? 
PL: Yeah, you can
A: Bit early for tomorrows, but you can probably get the late edition of Variety
PL: What do you get?
A: Mail
PL: Don’t know if it’s online, try it
(32.0)
PL: Doing something wrong
A: Do you want the address
PL: Got it?
A: Yeah
PL No good, what is it?
A: I thought they’d put it on the bottom of the paper, they don’t though, do they?
PL: No
M: Might be on the front
A: No, it’s on there, saw it the other day In the adverts www.jobsunlimited.co.uk 
PL: Oh, that’s no good, done something wrong
A: Still need . co . uk
PL: okay
A: Bugger cause this paper was crap today
PL: There we go Over two thousand jobs
A: No it hasn’t
M: (...)
A: Two thousand fake jobs
M: You only want one
A: No I thought any job you have to go through an agency are fake jobs
PL: IT vacancies, Community Service, 
(...) Close to London
A: It’s not, it’s only about seven hours by train
[laughs]
PL: Student (...)
A: That was in on Saturday
PL: Yeah
A: Quite interesting and it’s attractive Loads going on down there
PL: There’s remarkably little of these sites, they’re quite still
M: Nice to have (...)
A: Our intranet site has the E logo going round and round I want to stick something over it There’s a lot of resentment
(4.0)
PL: Right, okay, great
A: Very simple
(Background noise)
A: At least it’s English
PL: Here’s the Tesco
A: Wayhay I’m buying already Cheesecake
[laughs]
M: (...)
A: Cake Bakery, my god
PL: All the different breads These are the categories
M: Yeah
PL: Click on one of these
A: Oh yeah Look Chocolate croissants
PL: Yeah
A: I am bakery connoisseur Little doughnuts Where’s the link to cream? There should be one for that and jam Here you’d have yum-yums then tea, a straight link
PL: This is one of the limitations of this it’s just list driven
A: Sad Research is probably changing all that, you’ll have things that link
PL: Do you think that’d be the best kind of link, things that go together?
A: Yeah, cinema, linked to video and that’d be a way of selling Cake Where’s the cake, ah We know what continental cake is, it’s bread with fruit in it Horrible 
PL: Cakes premium large
A: Big cake Fat free oh
PL: Toffee Temptation
A: It’s that (...) stuff that comes in big cases
PL: Choose one of these
A: You just buy?
PL: Click on it and it puts it in the shopping basket
A: Oh my
PL: Then go back to departments
A: Off-license Cake and booze
PL: What do you want?
A: Cider Down a bit
PL: That’s all they’ve got
A: Oh no, how much is the Tescos (...)
PL: Doesn’t...
A: That’s Europe’s interference that is,  that’s Brussels and there bloody (...) why can’t they just leave it alone
PL: You’ll be paying for this in Euros
A: I will not I’ll be there with my stick with ‘Say no to Euros’
PL: Put the meat in
A: That’s okay
PL: This is the shopping list
A: 280 quid, who bought that many chocolate digestives?
PL: Wasn’t me
[laughs]
PL: Baked beans, build up the list, and this is all off-line so you’re not paying for it and when you’ve got your list ready you can send it off
A: How do you update?
PL: It’s based on your local store and it’s got all the products in there, they can’t handle the offers, just standard prices You’ll still get them, but it doesn’t tell you
M: Right
PL: And then they have the guy at the store, an expert shopper go round and get it, it’s paid for then delivered
A: This is the equivalent of taking you into the shop and saying get what you want, this is dangerous
PL: Why
A: Because you’ll sit here and get what sounds good, not what we need
PL: How do you do your shopping
A: I do it, and not between three and three thirty because hordes of mothers and kids appear and I don’t want to do battle
PL: Do you wait until you need stuff
A: No, I think three packs of toilet roll is normal even if we have it
PL: I was wondering whether this would suit your style of shopping
A: If we both had late nights and had to do it this would be perfect
M: This wouldn’t be the dominant part
A: This would be because I want cake basically
M: Decide shopping tomorrow but we’re both late back, it’d be perfect
PL: Problem is they normally take a couple of days before
A: This is getting blown out
M: Two years time
A: Not that long, Saturday night I want popcorn, two days ain’t going to cut it, I want it now
PL: It’ll improve
A: I don’t see it working for me
M: Why not
A: Because I’m not an everyday shopper Sometimes I can other times I think I’ll shop for a whole year, I don’t want to see another shop ever again I think if you had a huge family this would be fabulous, get the staples you buy every week, we’re not like that
M: It would get used I mean I’m not a shopper and if you went on holiday whatever
A: Please, I leave things labelled in the fridge
PL: You were talking of the loyalty card, I mean when things go online, they’re storing information about what you buy and they’ll say you like this kind of thing, so
M: (...) they’ll find a way
PL: They can personalise offers
A: I think they already try to do that, back to this man with the satellite, every now and again you see them compare baskets of shopping and it doesn’t apply to us, we’re too haphazard I buy what takes my fancy We don’t have children so we don’t have to keep feeding them, if you buy staples you’ve got to buy bread, milk whatever, we don’t eat like that Cake
PL: (...) in the shops knowing about individual shoppers
A: But Sainsbury’s do that, they have questionnaires and you see more and more of it, and you get people not indigenous to this country becoming indigenous to an area so you’ve got loads of people coming in and they cater to people in the area and they’re catering to that, so yeah I think that’s what they’re doing, there’s a lot of West Indian food in ours which makes it a lot easier for me
PL: But that’s,  I think you’re right, but it’s still not based on individuals
A: Oh you mean more personalised
PL: Yeah, yeah
A: I swing one way one week, another another week There are a lot of people like me, fickle
M: There are some stable
A: But I’ll switch because something’s cheaper
PL: They’ll notice because of that
A: Why’s that bitch goone back and bought that bleach again
[laughs]
A: I feel compelled to answer about yourself because they form this picture and it’s not an accurate picture
PL: It’d be very difficult
A: They do it in magazines, open someone’s handbag and rationalise They did mine they’d think I was completely screwy
LP: It’s a difficult proposition to analyse someone’s shopping and make sense of it
A: They have to do it to survive I suppose, but then they don’t have enough cake
[laughs]
A: Too much cleaning implements Heavy stuff should be on wheels Cake at the front followed by toilet roll and milk, not fresh fruit at the front Then you’d be out
M: You should go into retail
A: I thought about it but they’d go broke in a week I think people are too fickle for this to work, it’s like tagging you We’re too fickle for that unless you’re buying a set product
M: Doesn’t have to be down to the last item though, we eat the same cereals
A: That’s what you think You assume it comes from the same shop
M: Fifty percent it does In a way it could work, there must be people who say I will eat the same thing You don’t have to go online
A: But you are the second you go online, you have to register
PL: Yeah
A: They get a piece of you somewhere
M: Some ways it’s a random thing where they won’t know exactly
A: Yeah but they’ll know a certain pattern It’d be dead easy for you Three things’d show up, shopping, Loot
PL: There’s another development being worked on called intelligent agents, where you get a program that works for you, goes to the shops and negotiates on prices, so that’d need information
A: Forget that now, it’s too creepy Quite capable of doing it myself 
[laughs]
M: That’s too personal
PL: What if they put it in the background, they write cookies, stick one of those in?
M: Mm
A: Unless I’m losing my mind, there’s no point Way too creepy
[laughs]
PL: Companies are working on this now
A: They can do what the hell they like
[laughs]
M: It’d suit a lot of people
PL: Don’t you think it’d be kind of good to say here’s the things I want, go and negotiate the best prices, get me the best deals
A: It’d have to be such an integral part of your life that that’s where you lived so you could be busy doing something else
PL: They’re like little programs that’d travel round the Internet It can work while your off-line
A: Right, Lawnmower Man 2
[laughs]
M: That’s it
A: Told you, you thought it was just TV Conspiracy Theory
M: Bit too personal
A: It’d have your trouser size and go looking for waffles for you That’s worrying
PL: Why?
A: It’s taking the joy out of living You’d vegetate
M: Wouldn’t work (...)
A: (...) robot I find that very worrying, sorry, taking the life essence out of you
PL: Here you are, these are the cookise, this is the code left by the sites we’ve visited, so they know what we’ve been looking at Here we go Loot, see What these
A: Look at all the shops Gap is online too
PL: Info on what we saw
A: None of this seems to worry you at all
(...)
[laughs]
PL: Didn’t bring the brain scanner with me See that’s just clickstream information But when intelligent agents come, there’ll be much more information
M: Yeah, but when I switch off the machine, I don’t want nobody coming and switching it back on
PL: But when you turn off, they’ll go off round the world, and come back when you switch on
A: That’s put me right off
PL: They can’t do this yet
A: That’s what you say
[laughs]
A: Pulp Fiction
M: Still has it’s uses
A: Just cause you saw 616 Granadas
M: It’s got benefits though
A: Yeah, sure (...) in that respect yeah, when you can get information in a short space of time, it’s really good, but then, we won’t even talk about it, I don’t know, if I don’t think about it in technical terms, I think about what it is, the ability to look at any information I require, it’s fantastic, I mean we’ve come so far, but thinking of the technical aspects and what it does, we’re lucky, I feel I’m computer literate, but I know people like my Mum who (...) and there’s a wealth of information Kids are studying it at five or six
M: (...) and that’s up to you if you keep up with it
A: But how much is keeping up and how much part of my life, I mean if I want digital TV, they’re going to introduce so much more in terms of what it can do, we can buy from cable without having to call anybody, with pay per view, you’ve got your pin, at the right time, now, boom before it took ages in less than a year that’s gone
PL: When digital TV comes
A: It’s going to be a question of tapping it in or voice control, even worse 
PL: I think voice recognition has a way to go
M: But does it?
PL: We talked about this shopping online years ago
A: I mean there’s a catalogue on TV
PL: Thanks, great I’ve run out of tape



 
ut24

ut24; ABC1 COHABS 18-35 HIGH IT, 15 MARCH 1999-08-17


PL: Okay yes right I’m Pete, you are?
J: I’m J
S: I’m Sam
PL: Okay well we’re talking to lots of people about the internet and computers about  shopping online. So can we just start by just asking you what you think about the internet
J: Shall I start? Um I kind of feel like I’ve used it much more in a work context than in a kind of home using it in the home and partly because we haven’t got access here
PL: Right
J: So I’ve seen it I think up till now very much as a kind of work tool
PL: Right
J: To find information and I’m kind of really aware that I don’t I mean I’m thinking about this week and trying to organise a hen night with someone and she automatically kind of we’ve been trying to find restaurants in St Albans and she automatically kind of like looked up on Scoot and pointed out a list of addresses
PL: Right right
J: And I realise that I didn’t even automatically think you know internet should be the first stop so I think I’ve probably quite compartmentalised it into a kind of I can find information that I need and I go to quite a specific website and because it’s not that easy to access it at work it’s not kind of very exploratory it’s much more kind of its quite kind of mechanistic
PL: So is there a restricted access?
J: Well there’s only two access points and you’re immediately you’re pushing someone else off their computer to access it so it’s quite utilitarian you don’t I don’t kind of unless I stay late at work where I just mess around and generally kind of go into kind of government websites or whatever to print off press releases and it’s been quite, up to this point it’s been you know it hasn’t been as exploratory as I would like
PL: No
J: Just because I haven’t really been able to kind of sit down and play with it
PL: But do you have your own PC at work?
J: Yes, I do
PL: But that’s not connected up?
J: It’s not connected up no, which it will, but we haven’t even got external email at the moment because um we’ve got lots of kind of advice centres around the country in theory IT has been really behind the times so we haven’t been kind of a priority, but I think that will change in the next year but um yeah I’m really aware that it’s a kind of I feel much more comfortable with it than I probably did kind of a year ago, eighteen months ago, I’m not intimidated by it but I’m not really using it in a way that I could, what would you say?
S: I don’t know if you can though I mean I’ve probably used the internet quite a lot on and off um but I’m not very excited about it, I don’t really think it’s you know I don’t um it doesn’t really its it can be a positive disadvantage I think in a lot of worthy environments um and
J: How come?
S: Well because um if you look at it as a first you’ve got to be well I think you do have to be I’ve found increasingly you have to be quite focussed about what you want and even then there’s a high chance you won’t get it and um you know there’s still a lot of sort of hardware there’s a lot of difficulties getting to it a lot of the time
PL: Mmm
S: So it’s not I don’t find it particularly reliable or you know, so I often I mean I’ve used it online you know use an online cutting services quite a lot
PL: Right
S: But they’re very un you know you’ll often find yourself crashing out or you’re going backwards and forwards. In that sense it browsers aren’t really very I don’t actually find them particularly user friendly and in that sense I’ve become a bit allergic to the mouse so a lot of material’s just out of date you know you can show in a search and it’s just you know it’s a lot
J: Mmm
S: There’s a lot of dead wood
J: They can (…)
S: Down there so I mean and I I mean I probably be I don’t know I mean you used to think email was more interesting than worldwide web but then I don’t, I’m not so sure at the moment, if anything I don’t sort of have a it would only be for like if I wished to email, the nature of er how it works doesn’t really lend itself that well to using it at the moment. So I’m not really adverse to using any of it I just I’m just
J: It’s not that exciting
S: I’m just dis well I was sort of disillusioned now I’m just you know bored in a kind of way by it all the er hype
PL: Right yeah do you feel there’s been a lot of hype of that kind?
S: Yeah I think it’s increasing as well. I mean this idea of sort of kids in America logging onto the net and not turning on the TV anymore and seeing sort of you know dunno probably its sort of uncool now it seems faintly ludicrous really you know to me that’s why I’m not really that motivated to bother getting it at home although it probably could make you know it might make a difference or be useful but like you know somehow I can’t sort of you know I dunno
J: cos I I it’s really interesting cos I was um the time when I had the chance to explore this if I go to my I’ve got a sister and where she lives and she’s got access and I was looking at something for work so I was trying to find out about thinktanks and it was a really good example I think of the really the positives and negatives cos I got really excited and kind of once I was in there and there were some really great links and I was like looking at Nexus and looking at all these kind of like policy papers and looking at (…) state and so and there were some things there where I really am hit sometimes by what would have happened five years ago. I would have to ring up and would have had to wait, if it was a Sunday it would have had to wait till Monday or if I had to get through to their press office they would have sent me a press release if I was lucky a week later you know and by the end of the evening I had printed off all this stuff but I had also got massively distracted, gone all over (…) without any kind of like you know not very logical, it took me a long time to print things off like things were coming up quite quickly but the printer was really slow and actually its not its kind of I think you could spend a lot of time looking for things and actually not come up with
S: Like yeah, I mean I did I spent well when I was working at Panorama I wasted a lot of time looking on the internet for stuff it was partly as a sort of distraction almost to avoid doing real real journalism
PL: Yeah
J: Yet you know where you’re going don’t you?
S: Cos I found I’ve become I think that so many websites a lot of websites are just a load of you know are rubbish I mean they’re out of date no-one puts any so you can sort of you know find stuff out but there aren’t really there are fewer than you might expect in the in the in particularly in Britain I think I mean there are obviously a lot of very big websites and things in the states but in this country in particular if you’re looking for sort of I was looking in sort of areas like women’s issues and all that sort of thing um and there was about each topic you end up looking at there’s about three sites in this country two of which are kind of seem to be vaguely functioning um so I’ve veered more to kind of using it as a means almost of getting to existing information sources more easily and more quickly
PL: Right right
S: So like I can get I don’t have to ring up the cutting slide bureau I can just do my own search online whereas in the past you know you would’ve had to rake through a thousand files or whatever you can actually just or you know ordering a book that rarely arrives you know so
PL: So for already established links and sites you know and know you use it’s got something
S: Yeah I mean I don’t kind of really I mean there are there are some there are some new sites that I think are quite you know fill in sort of add value to what I’m doing but um (2.0) it’s sort of you know it’s not always the case
PL: You were both talking about limitations of search engines really. I mean have you heard about the developments of intelligent agents software?
J: No
PL: Right well I mean one idea is that it’s not practical yet but in the future, is that you get some code that’s basically a mobile piece of code and you can instruct it to go off while you’re offline and do these kinds of searches so that you don’t actually have to sit online and manage the search process itself. I mean presumably that would appeal because it would take away the business of having to be there so
J: Yes
S: But if it was still digging up the same naff content then
[all laugh]
S: It’s not I’m not I mean I think search engine technology has improved quite a lot I mean just using something like (…) is I think a lot better than it was two or three when I was at University you know it was painful you’d sit there for hours and it would chugg away and then give you nothing very much whereas now its very fast and you often get something quite
PL: A pile of rubbish
J: (laughs)
S: So we do often get something fairly sensible in the first four four sign um but but I don’t think that there aren’t really enough there’s I mean I sort of it would be useful to me if there were more kind of online data banks and stuff that actually had information that’s very hard to get you know so that was kind of creating an electronic library I don’t think there’s many sites that really do that or have very good search for archives and things um
PL: No no
S: Um you know particularly in sort of in news and stuff so I mean you know you’re in the BBC news website it’s kind of gone along that way to a certain extent but again it still only goes back about two years and so sites like that are quite good but there’s not really there’s not it doesn’t appear to me to be sort of there’s not enough of that yet
PL: Right right
S: Where you want to be able to look up and actually do real research on your computer without having to go to go somewhere else
PL: Yes
S: I should think it would be much more useful
J: It’s interesting isn’t it because this other stuff about updating it really makes me think, like I was amazed yesterday looking at some things that organisations like thinktanks that would you would have thought would have actually kind of cottoned on about how important that they’d be kind of at the cutting edge. So many sites really totally out of date. I mean it makes me think of Shelter, I think we’ve actually got quite good for a charity we’ve got a pretty good website and I was looking at like the Labour Party website and I thought this is going to be really impressive this is going to knock
S: It’s got nothing on it has it, you can’t find anything out
J: Absolutely bugger all, I mean the only thing they had was the weekly brief so that all the MPs are like you know sitting by their pagers to take your message, but absolutely nothing else at all and see it’s kind of like there’s been a bit of a lag that people know they’ve got to have a site but they actually haven’t invested the resources in updating it and it isn’t as imaginatively used other than the kind of like people who are really obviously kind of trailblazers that it’s still kind of early days in a way about
S: Well you’re sort of given the impression aren’t you that electronic media is now ahead of the curve or almost ahead of on paper but the reality is that of course paper is still the predominating medium you know so you know I suppose for in work terms for important reports for us or whatever there might be rather than paying £60 you could read it, look at it on the internet, that’s not
J: Yes
S: Really happening I mean
J: Well this is about a culture change isn’t it and there’s a real (…) in Shelter I think have got a really good pretty good website but I’m not automatically thinking right I’ve got this event coming up and (…) to do you know and there is there are obviously people thinking like that, I don’t think it’s permeated they can only reach so many people in the organisation so that it’s kind of funny cos in a way um its absolutely um I mean I really I’ve got such a clear memory in my mind of when I first sat in a meeting in Cambridge when people were first talking about the worldwide web and I thought well what the hell is that and that is kind of such a kind of stark memory and when I think that’s only kind of five six years ago
PL: Yeah right
J: A massive amount has happened on one hand yet on another I think it is kind of behind the hype I guess it is just behind the hype
S: Well I think there’s a hype after the worldwide web and I think that’s the problem that that’s you know it doesn’t it is kind of a bit like a glossy magazine in a way it’s easy to get to but that doesn’t mean it’s kind of necessarily good and I suppose you know there is a sort of for certain people who write you know the people who create the hype who’re writing about computers and the internet are much more plugged in so they are taking advantage of I don’t know you know um news groups or whatever or ways of communicating with each other that actually generates new information and contacts or whatever which is much more sort of stimulating and interactive there’s a sort of more free exchange whereas the worldwide web is very much a kind of you the consumer going to a shop kind of thing
PL: Yeah right right
S: And you only take what’s in it you know
J: Which is just how I’ve been using it which I really like you know kind of you know that kind of information, I’m out to get some information and there will be some exciting possibilities but I haven’t done any of the interactive stuff at all, not at all which I’m sure is partly a function of having it in a work context where it’s much more utilitarian rather than being able to have it at home where you can explore
PL: I think this transition you are talking about is absolutely right and I think that this new transition is in a sense is the new generation of people who’ve come onto the net prepared to the old netheads, the people who were there before there was widespread availability and machines. There’s clearly a culture change in what constitutes being on the net and what it’s for
J: Yes
S: Mmm
PL: And I think the lag you’re talking about is absolutely right. Why do you think people feel the pressure almost to have a website given that they’re not going to support it in the ways that you’re talking about? Cos I think you’re right that there’s this emphasis on getting a site
J: Yeah, it’s partly the hype factor though isn’t it I mean it’s partly that sense of especially when you think for charities with kind of limited resources there is a sense of like it’s a must have
PL: Yeah
J: That somehow that you really are very much behind the times because everybody’s way down the road you know there’s this sense that somehow we’re all connected up and well I’m sure I don’t actually know what the figures are but I mean I’m sure in terms of the number of homes that have actually got access so I think there is a kind of partly because it isn’t just hype is it it’s a massive it’s a phenomenal change that’s happened in a very short space of time and I think that’s a reality it isn’t just hype
S: No
J: And you know and there’s and I think the consequences are just phenomenal but I’m sure that there is just that sense of even though people just haven’t had a chance to think it through and they haven’t necessarily got the resources
PL: Right
J: And I think there’s always a bit of a cultural lag isn’t there
S: Mmm
J: With any of these you know with any of these kind of technological changes it’s never going to suddenly mean that we’re all automatically in and in especially in an organisation
S: It’s slightly redolent in this country as well as it’s the usual problems with all the kind of communication that internal communication related thing as well you know there’s a always management never really understand the technology very well do they, so they kind of go you know, we must be in on this and they don’t really sort of commit to it I think is the case but of all that is organisations. Also there’s a bit of a lack of purpose as to what it’s all about really isn’t it because I mean the internet is really a grazing, the worldwide web is kind of a grazing mechanism isn’t it like when we’re saying where you picks you go and have a look at things and for an organisation to just kind of have a page with their address on it is not really that’s not really offering anything is it
J: But it’s also that you’ve got to kind of you’ve got to see it in organisation you’ve got to believe in organisation that you want people to know about what you’re doing that that’s kind of part of your core you know like I think even if they took a really long time to get going a lot of the kind of government departmental websites are actually really good now
S: Mmm
PL: Yeah yeah
J: I mean you can get you know a press release has come out you’re going to want and you forget it and there’s a real sense I think that even though it took them quite a long time to get going they now they’re either kind of clear raison d’etre about open government and whatever that I think is kind of may give them the kind of political (…) resources to (…) whereas something like Shelter we are starting to think oh yeah we do want people to know about fundraising, giving donations, the fact that we you know the last six months we’ve started looking at how people can give online and all of that
PL: Right
J: There’s a that has increased people’s focus on it but I think otherwise it’s very easy unless you’re kind of tapped into that public sections showcasing what you’re doing or whatever it’s very easy for it to be seen as a kind of add on, not integral to what you’re doing and I kind of think that we’ve got far enough down the line to think yeah we should have one and actually compared to a lot of other websites, you know like I think council websites are quite interesting, I was looking at Camden Council’s website and they’ve really you can tell now that they’ve really integrated it into what they’re doing
PL: Right
J: They’re doing all this consultation that you know the website is really in there it’s quite integral to what they’re trying to do and to kind of make people much more aware of what er services they’re providing
PL:  That goes back to Sam’s point about purpose as well because it sort of meets the purpose of this democratising 
J: Yeah
S: Mmm
J: Supposedly yeah
(all laugh)
PL: Well supposedly, but we’re not saying
S: A good example is there are sort of things like that and yeah you know it’s the kind of the government have taken a sort of all that approach bit like the universities did before I suppose and so things like you can search (…)
PL: Yes
S: But for the past five years which were very (…)
PL: Yes
J: Oh yes
S: Yeah and you know and Railtrack have kind of got the timetable and all the engineering on their website you know but they actually do
J: Notice you on there down as a single hit on that one (laughs)
PL: I don’t know why I always use the rail planner (…)
S: Rather than getting stuff off their website or whatever
J: It’s very interesting isn’t it that how I was really aware about this friend who was kind of automatically actually and someone else at work I’m trying to kind of be doing kind of these friends and I’m trying to invite lots of voluntary organisations and I was aware again today partly because it’s been in my mind over the weekend not about having to treat (…) that the first thing that I was looking at was actually a book and a CD rom of charities and I was  trooping round floors trying to see who else had this book and someone said oh so what have you checked on the net and actually I had checked last night cos I was doing other things but it still isn’t automatically my first reference point in the way that I think it probably is now for quite a lot of people who’ve got easy access and they kind of do it well you don’t ring (…) of course you do I’m lying and
PL: Yes, well I don’t know why do you think you’ve got that(…)
S: The (…) I mean what’s what’s the point
J: Oh well (…) give you discount if you book online (laughs)
S: I know but (…)
PL: What that incentive’s linked to it being a direct booking as well?
J: Yes
S: It’s disabling though isn’t it even if its sort of like I won’t speak to anybody it’s easiest to do it (…) I like going to bookshops and stuff if I don’t want to buy any books online
J: Yeah but then I was very impressed when I needed this book on local government and S got it
S: That’s cos I was in a rush 
J: And a day later there it was
S: I only use Amazon when I’m in a rush and it’s
J: Well I was impressed by that, I think I’m probably generally a bit more interested in that kind of thing
PL: But isn’t that the point that it won’t that it’s not to replace something obviously it’s not like that a bookshop but it’s complementary
J: Yeah, but that was fantastic cos for these things the last thing you want to do is troop round London trying to find some pretty boring book on local government whereas you could just order it and there it was a day later
PL: Yes
S: I’ve lost all faith in them now though cos now they’re being you know now it’s been revealed that they’re paid for which books they put on the front their kind of classic book you know a book to be remembered for decades you can buy it
J: Is this on the Amazon website?
S: Yeah
J: Right
S: You can buy all their critically acclaimed slots and things which is a bit dodgy and also I can’t stand
PL: They are they are a company
J: I was going to say, yes
S: The other thing I can’t stand now that’s increasing
J: WH Smiths probably gets money
S: This this return this you know this remembering who you are
PL: Oh yes
S: I can’t stand all this hello again STaylor rubbish
PL: Why not?
J: Is that what happens?
S: Yeah and I just think eeugh! You know where’s the anonymity I mean it’s like CCTV isn’t it
J: (laughs)
PL: Yes, that is what
S: I mean I’ve spoken you know having spoken to a few people who manage their files manage files and stuff like large organisations, you sort of don’t really sit around feeling tremendously relaxed about oh I find that there is a slightly sinister edge to email and you know cos I was interested in researching a film on porn for Panorama and you had to notify some bloke up at the monitoring station in Reading that this was going on so that we didn’t get (…) um and stuff, there is you know there’s quite a lot of passive technology now that just automatically reads all emails and things
PL: Yes yes, but for the most part that’s in the background
S: Mmm
PL: Unless users aren’t aware of it
S: No well you don’t even need a person to do it do you
PL: No
S: You just have to alter the software to just chuck up anything dodgy looking
J: Yeah but that’s not just true for the net or anything that’s true for any file that you delete, it’s still there isn’t it?
PL: Well this is surveillance
S: Yeah
PL: When you’re on line
J: Yeah systematic
S: Yeah I mean you know we get these kind of drives round going round every email that you send it says sent on company headed paper in effect but I mean that’s not how people use it though at work I mean they haven’t seemed to quite be able to balance out their
J: There was that libel case wasn’t there about internal
S: Yeah it was Norwich Union wasn’t it and someone at the BBC got fired for looking at the wrong websites about a year ago. He worked in Radio Times or something but he’d been trying to read Danish porn sites
(all laugh)
J: So it was porn sites rather than the wrong sites (laughs)
S: Well that’s right I was being euphymistic wasn’t I
(all laugh)
PL: Yes well maybe there are advantages for getting it at home and what about electronic commerce?  You talked a bit about (…)
S: (…)
J: I was thinking about it on the way it’s funny because I think about it on the way home because my um shopping routine is so my well this is my like kind of Somerfield shopping routine is so unbelievably dull like I really do go for I do pretty much the same every time if I’m doing a like standard shop so I do think that once I’ve got over the initial fiddle what I imagine is quite fiddly to start off with as well which well we’re vegetarians not back rashers of bacon which special celeriac or something that you want to choose
S: I would never go shopping on the internet, food shopping
J: Really?
S: No
PL: Why not?
J: You quite like going along though
S: Well I do I like
J: But you don’t like the bookshop but you quite like holding a tomato in your hand
S: But I like shopping anyway, but you talk about this sort of you know I’m sedentary enough as it is I mean so what I order all my food on the internet I sit at the computer, order the food, don’t go to the shop, then a man drives round here in a van at some inconvenient time um you know and delivers it I mean you know
PL: You can specify the time
S: So I’ve had to involve an extra person, a motorised vehicle you know when I could have walked up the road and be back in half an hour with like having carried my shopping and not have to get in any cars
J: See I think great, you know active lifestyle on the run I do the same boring job each time I fiddle around with my selection, press a little button, the delivery bus though is a bit of a isn’t really environmental (laughs)
S: To me I’m not pretending to be environmental
J: No no I was going to say me pretending to be a bit environmental I’d go on no I can’t possibly shop on the internet if someone has to deliver it for me, but I don’t
S: You’d never have thought of (…)
J: But I don’t get a great thrill from I can’t see the great thrill of like wondering round Waitrose and (1.0) I mean sometimes I suppose if you’re kind of
S: That’s my exercise (1.0)
J: Mmm, yeah (laughs)
S: It’s partly because of my hours that add to the make the process slightly easier, my working pattern means I can go in the daytime
J: Yeah
PL: Mmm
S: Rather than at night
J: Well that’s quite a good thing isn’t it, cos things like the queuing factor and stuff
S: Cos then when I wasn’t working when I was working ordinary hours and was didn’t mind going on the weekend
J: Yeah (1.0) What about the expense of it, how much more do you end up paying, what do you pay for like delivery and
PL: Well delivery is usually about a fiver
J: Right
PL: Whatever you spend
J: Right
PL: That’s the sort of flat rate charge
J: Right
PL: I don’t think that’s actually covering the expenses of the service at all, it’s sort of like a
J: And they’re choosing to subsidise it then?
PL: Basically yes
J: Yeah
PL: And then there’s the cost of being online
J: Yeah
PL: So you’re paying you’re paying those extras
S: Thing is I think the (…) doesn’t really sort of stick out that much because you know I don’t really use mail order either you know I don’t use any sort of modes of er many modes of getting stuff delivered to my house, I don’t order wine by post or um you know
J: (laughs) Who knows in ten years maybe 
S: I don’t phone, well it, I well maybe, I don’t phone I don’t phone for flowers and all this kind of thing either you know I don’t
J: (…)
S: Order clothes from a catalogue so er er but do you know what I mean they are all sort of
PL: Yes
S: Similar ways of buying stuff
PL: Yeah
S: Aren’t they? I like to go out (1.0)
J: See things
S: And get it
J: Yeah
PL: Mmm
S: And then come back but I don’t know whether I like it or not I just do generally speaking especially with a lot cos you want to sort of I mean I know all stuff in the shops is usually been is usually in worse quality than you’ll get sent on mail order, but you like to sort of (1.0) see (1.0)
J: But I’d make a distinction
S: Shop soiled (…)
J: Between what it is you’re buying cos I think yeah like if I’m getting a (…) that is kind of getting it to work again it’s the kind of utilitarian versus the kind of creative, I’m if that book then (…) 24 hours later after I’ve ordered it and it’s all sorted fantastic
S: Mmm
J: And it just like if the shopping can arrive fantastic I don’t care I don’t want to hold those tomatoes in my hand someone else can do it, whereas I wouldn’t buy catalogue. I mean I know that that’s also a class thing as well
PL: Yes
J: But there’s something about clothes buying clothes or something
PL: Right
J: Where even if sometimes it’s a not a kind of utilitarian well sometimes it is but there’s more of a kind of matter of taste say shopping (…)
S: You can always, you can always send them back can’t you
J: That would be grim. Yeah but that’s slightly there’s a kind of a bit of a fiddle factor there whereas you’re unlikely to kind of you buy a book you know you choose a book cos you pretty much know what’s in it and you know what’s going to be in your shopping providing you haven’t messed up your order
S: But I thought they looked like (…) cos I mean I don’t want someone else to pick my tomatoes cos they’ll have all been boshed around whereas I can select my own tomatoes you know
J: (laughs)
S: (…) the really cheap tomatoes you’ve got to have a certain (…)
J: (…)
S: (…)
PL: At the moment Tescos are doing a service where they send an expert shopper round the store and they
J: Do they?
S: What I mean what the height of decadence
J: (laughs)
S: It really is isn’t it
J: I think you take a lot more care over your shopping than
S: No but I mean that’s just um you know you know I mean isn’t life you know it’s bad enough having to go to the supermarket anyway rather than to a sort of an exotic street market (all laugh)
S: Like cities of old you know you know all these TV chefs are always going on about how they go to delicatessens and all this kind of thing and I just go to the supermarket
J: (…)
S: No but they all sort of go you know surely you know we’re striving for the more real you know not the less real you know we’re supposed to be sort of getting special fresh pastas done by an old Italian family and so I go to the supermarket instead but the idea that I send some sort of autonoman around
J: It’s interesting isn’t it cos there’s probably a gender thing there I mean not so much for us in a sense that you do far more shopping than I do kind of thing but I’m sure there’s I’m sure there’s a wider thing about what you see as part of your work you know say for a lot of women and this definitely is the case for us but you know if you see shopping like when I think for my mum for my mum the idea of for her of being able to kind of
PL: Yeah
J: You know have it delivered fantastic cos she associates it with stress with you know and actually for her as well the clothes shopping is purely utilitarian really
PL: Right right
J: She associates it with kind of stressful you know better go out because I need a shirt and there’s a real I guess it comes out in the differences between us about what you perceive about something that you just have to do and what you actually want to kind of be a bit more creative about or do kind of feel the tomatoes
S: Yeah but that’s only if I mean you know I don’t really I don’t that’s the only type of shopping I really like I don’t like clothes shopping I do tend to sort of wait until my shoes are falling apart
J: Yeah
S: But it even and there are never any decent shoes in the shops. If there was a really amazing large shoe size website
J: (laughs)
S: I probably would because what what would be attractive you see it’s like that local government book, I knew that finding the right local government book
J:  As you (…) well
S: I knew that
J: Sam
S: I knew that to get we were talking about it for a week before weren’t we and I knew that to find a decent local government book um in a bookshop would be quite difficult
J: You can tell this is a big thing in our lives (laughs)
S: It will take well it’s that sort of (…) but it would have taken me quite a long time you know and it probably would have been knackered or something
PL: Yeah
S: And there might you know whereas I was sitting at work I thought well I can have a quick look on Amazon you know because it’s a search engine I don’t have to trawl the shelves, it will throw up local government stuff, give me a little breakdown and um you know maybe if there’s a discount it might knock off most of the price of the post and packaging so it will be kind of the same
PL: Mmm
S: But it will have saved me you know so that’s sort of something it can offer that’s different to your traditional bookshop that it will actually rather than sort of surly staff refusing to type in their computer you can actually you know and I have actually used it sometimes to look up books which I haven’t bought but (…) bought in the shop
PL: Yeah
S: But you know you can in that sense it’s got a certain if it can offer something of intelligence that’s beyond normal shopping then it’s useful
J: Mmm, interesting
PL: But what about the supermarket shop? You’re talking about sort of waiting until you need a pair of shoes before going to get it so what about the supermarket shop is that how you do that or (1.0) or do you do you go on a regular time or do you wait until you’re out of key items (1.0) what’s your strategy?
S: Well my strategy is
(all laugh)
S: Is generally to go when we’ve run out (laughs) when we’re running out of key 
PL: Yeah yeah
S: Items not when we’ve totally run out
PL: Yeah
S: But I wouldn’t want a man to come round well a person to come round I only say a man in a van because it rhymes
J: (laughs)
S: As you will
PL: They have women delivering
J: (laughs)
S: But I don’t want um sorry (…) I can go to the little bakery on the corner and buy a loaf of bread you know
PL: Yeah
J: I suppose it wouldn’t so I mean it doesn’t end up especially if there’s that five pounds charge even if it’s fairly nominal that it would be much kind of make much more sense for really large bulk orders
S: Mmm. Well we generally I suppose the thing is because we haven’t got
J: It could really help actually because there’s a even though the supermarket’s up the road for us it is still a kind of fifteen minute walk and most of the time when I I mean the last time no not the last time (…) when I went I couldn’t actually I could almost not physically carry what I had bought. I get a bit kind of over excited about getting all my potatoes and stuff and then have to wait for the bus to come round cos I just actually can’t pick it up or people have to offer to help cos they’re a bit worried that I might collapse on the way back. But things like that we think are bulk buying and I can only associate that as well with kind of I’m sure that you could kind of recoup the costs by bulk buying, it depends how much you’d save
S: Yeah but because we don’t have a car and and there’s only two of us and we’re just not really sort of in that you know my mum would go to shops in a massive car and spend a hundred quid on the shopping
J: Yeah
S: Whereas we spend twenty five quid cos you can carry I can carry four bags back is what I
J: Fifty quid in Waitrose (laughs)
S: Well no I always spend you know that’s what I normally do I just spend twenty five quid and bring four bags back and it kind of lasts for five days or something
PL: Yeah
S: Which is sort of you know and then you know and then occasionally if someone comes round in a car I go and buy some water with them or something or some orange juice but it doesn’t really sort of
J: I can kind of imagine though if you selected out your key items that you could get into a real rhythm each you know which we don’t we’re not a kind of Saturday morning
PL: Right right
J:  Is shop day or anything like that but we’re probably consuming fairly kind of similar things. But things like milk and bread and you could have a kind of basic shopping list that you would just kind of which would be a very kind of quick way of making sure that you
S: I still don’t like the idea though of this of this van coming round though
J: (laughs)
S: No but I don’t you know it is a waste of I mean you know I do think it’s a bit environmentally dodgy
J: Well there’s definitely I mean in terms of it adding up if everyone’s doing it then (…) but it’s
PL: Weren’t I mean most people go for the supermarket carloads don’t they? I mean the supermarkets have been saying it’s going to cut down trips?
J: There’s a lot of places
PL: (…)
J: There’s a lot of places like this
S: Yeah but we really not replacing a car trip with a van trip you’re replacing no trip a bus ride with a, a
PL: Well yes in your case that’s right
J: And somewhere like here though they probably which isn’t actually a kind of particularly um wealthy area I would have thought there’s lots of people who are bussing and walking
PL: Mmm
J: And it’s interesting cos the Somerfield’s just been revamped and they’ve got a home delivery service and ever since they’ve set it up it looks like they did have one man in a van and they’ve been totally swamped
S: I know
J: By the number of requests
S: I keep seeing that van all around
J: I mean it’s something there for the kind of people who are people who’s mobility’s limited the number of kind of pensioners who just where it would be and absolute dream
PL: Yeah yeah
S: I’m not against home delivery you know per se but you know as the as the norm though it does mean a sort of whole load of noisy vans parking on the kerb with their yellow lights on delivering sort of food to you know well off middle class professionals who can’t be arsed to go to the supermarket you know
J: Yes
S: So it’s slightly sort of mad
J: I can sort of see writ large like if it was going to if it did become the main way of our us shopping I do think there is a kind of vaguely sinister thing there isn’t there which is what you were saying before about you know there is something about a kind of social interaction although I know this is kind of danger of idealising cos it’s not like we all pop along to Somerfield and chat to our neighbours, everybody runs round you know, swears while they’re standing in the queue and then runs out again, but there is something quite kind of
S: Well conversely I think the problem is almost
J: It’s a bit kind of you know that same kind of people trapped in their not trapped but people in their own individual units
PL: Mmm mmm mmm
J: Doing their own kind of very separate things and that if they can avoid like that kind of driving in your car on the motorway with everybody else sitting in their own car of that kind of sense of you know that you avoid those kind of contact situations if you possibly can I kind of think it probably the actual opposite of culturally what we’re trying what we’d need to do have public transport or you know maybe there’s something there which I do kind of find
S: Well I find the effect the effect slightly reversing for me in a way I think that it’s sort of like it’s almost like um er it’s like a sort of unwelcome third party if you like. I mean partly because that’s what I see (…) it’s quite self it’s very self contained
J: Right
S: But um (1.0) but it’s sort of part of your you know
J: It’s your daily routine
S: It’s part of my responsibility you know it’s the nearest one gets to you know or having to sort out little things on your own and having a kind of list of burdens is about as close as you get to hard you know hard labour I suppose for for for us you know. If all my if it doesn’t feel very right on to kind of have what little kind of ardour there is in my lifestyle removed
PL: (laughs)
S: Yeah but you know
J: You make it sound like a positive pleasure to select your own tomatoes rather than (…)
S But I like to think if I had loads and loads well exactly if I had loads and loads of money I wouldn’t want you know I’d find it weird to have like domestic helps and cleaners and people doing my cooking for me, I think I would find that abnormal
PL: I think that’s interesting. To some extent this is about extending services that used to be really quite elite services to a much broader section of the population
J: Yes
PL: And that’s interesting
S: Mmm
PL: I like what you’re saying as well about sort of the lived experience of being in the shop sort of like part of the sort of some sort of personal thing personal feeling of being in the space rather than waiting and having things brought to you
S: I’ve become a bit more comfortable with the idea of fooling around on my own having had that phase when I had nothing to do in the mornings and sort of going but you know
J: Popping off of to Somerfield 
S: No but I have sort of as I get older I become more comfortable with the idea of just sort of you know it’s kind of my own personal time in a way if you go shopping on your own or whatever 
PL: Yeah
J: But that’s so much isn’t it about your individual cos I can just imagine you know if I was bringing up two children and you know the idea of having someone doing my Somerfield
S: Mmm
PL: Sure
J: Shopping it’s all that thing about what is it freeing you up to do which is the other kind of slightly sinister thing isn’t it about all expecting increasingly all these things on demand the kind of 24 hour
PL: Well that’s right
J: You know which I kind of think it’s the way it’s sold as a kind of freeing you up for other things but most of it you know when I’m I’m again this is a kind of very class thing isn’t it but for certain kind of strata it’s kind of freeing you up from all work which is the kind of same thing you are objecting to about the kind of like high flying professionals who don’t have time to do their own cleaning and pull someone else in. There is that kind of funny thing about things that we’re supposed things that (2.0) I don’t know that it all becomes something that it’s got to be done and kind of um you know it’s all got to be done in the shortest possible time
PL: Yes
S: It’s a bit like your frustration with not being able to get information about thinktanks on a Sunday I mean you know that’s got a sort of there is a sort of um obviously the net in a way is kind of fairly passive it’s not but
PL: Mmm
S: But at the same time it isn’t cos I mean where you know as sort of someone who’s you know in being corralled into the 24 hour service sector um you know there’s not any sort of 20 of me churning out the telly station overnight but there’s also 15 online journalists running you know the website
J: And we’ve just launched the 24 hour housing helpline, I mean there’s that same sense of being caught up in a just like the kind of we’ve got to create a website, we thought we’ve got to create 24 hour housing advice because people expect to be able to ring their bank at 12.00 and why should they not also ring up to get advice on a mortgage
S: Does anyone actually ring up at night then?
J: Yeah, oh yeah well partly
S: No I mean like after 12.00 kind of thing?
J: Yeah yeah
PL: Well that sort of service extending that service concept out to different hours is one thing but um er are you saying something about how that doesn’t fit with the sort of structure of the domestic life, that that’s not how one wants to live
J: Mmm
PL: Within the home?
S: No um, no I don’t think that no exactly I don’t think you do really I don’t think I mean I’ll probably have to sort of go onto you know I’m already working till 1.00, 3.00 till 1.00 in the morning shifts, I’ll probably have to go onto overnights at some stage in the next 12 months I mean um (2.0) it doesn’t it’s totally um I find it totally unnatural um I mean I I’d be quite happy to work the same amount of hours or more you know er something much more seems to me it’s much more akin to how I’d like to live would be to sort of go in in the morning and even if I didn’t come home til 10.00 sometimes that would feel more sensible than
PL: Mmm
S: Um this kind of weird you know your entire day being clamped in cos 24 hour working usually involves some kind of shift working which is much more weird than you just kind of you do you know it’s much than a sort of your traditional (…) and sort of core hours office job but you might carry on
PL: No but I also like what you were saying about being in the supermarket and sort of feeling the goods as being somehow I mean sort of there’s some sort of identity work or something going on there that you feel that this is what you do and somehow if that was taken away there’d be something lost there
J: (laughs) Which I think is probably
PL: Maybe the tomatoes aren’t ripe
J: No but I mean
PL: (…) this
S: Well you see we do we do operate differently in this sort of
J: You do (…) you’d really chose no but the reason why I was laughing was because I had a girlfriend who was saying that she knew what to do (…) was to come back going what’s for tea kind of thing and I was coming back with a bit of a loss of what to say cos I mean although like every few months or so I kind of think oh my goodness I haven’t done any Somerfield shopping for ages and (…) and then going to get told off when I get back cos I didn’t do it the way Sdoes it, that I haven’t got the right peanut butter cos I didn’t write a list or
PL: (laughs)
J: I haven’t done the washing I haven’t put the washing machine you have to check that I’ve put the like the right washing powder in the washing machine as if I kind of like never did any washing before
S: The washing no the washing’s fine now it’s the hanging out
J: (laughs) But there is something about there is he’s a kind of quite considered you know you have a way I mean everybody has a way of doing it
PL: Right right
J: But there is something that is part of you like actually when I was tidying up this weekend it was a kind of therapeutic bit between things at work it kind of like after an essay I used to come and clean my room it’s that kind of feeling
PL: Right right
J: And you probably have got into that in a way
S: Well I’m not really very organised I don’t sort of see myself as very organised you know in a way although there’s a lot of stuff that kind of goes a bit by the board because I’ve been under so a lot of stress I think for over the last two years at work I kind of feel like you know I’ve been very  slapdash
PL: Yeah yeah yeah yeah
S: In a lot of areas and so there is some things I kind of try to nail down more
PL: Right right
J: This is part of your routine and it’s kind of a routine it is associated with you for kind of not relaxation but it is part of your non-work routine and I’m sure that’s a critical thing
PL: Yes yes
J: Is it part do you see it as part of your work routine or do you see it as part of your non-work routine and for me I kind of it’s not part of my work routine in a sense that I’m not a kind of mother with children and
PL: Right
J: You know but I see it as something that I a job I have to do
PL: Right
J: Not a kind of experiential
S: It’s the same way that you sort of treat you know get more frustrated with like the same journey into work all the time whereas I’ve become much more even about my own journey to work or do you know what I mean I’ve become much more sort of it’s quite easy to get around I quite enjoy just staring out the window partly because I’m trying to sort of get time to not um (1.0) worry about things so much
PL: Mmm
S: You know I’ve become to sort of value sort of my kind of like who is that man over there
J: Yeah well it’s quite work ethicy for me I think there’s a sense of like you know how quickly can I tick these tasks off
PL: Yes yes
J: Because I want to move on to the next thing which might be work or can sometimes be what if I if I had my shopping delivered I could read the paper rather than you know but it’s a kind of it’s a bit more of a rhythm thing for me where I kind of I really have said even at weekends that I’ve got these things that I’ve got to do and if I could do them you know on the net then it would save me time then I kind of that would
S: Whereas for me I think I’ve become quite adverse to using the computer at home
J: Yeah
S: Because um you know the computer is totally work really
J: Yeah
S: And unless my you know if my job changed and it was kind of a bit more fluid so I could kind of you know whereas you if I was sort of doing something slightly less shifty may I have even have more ongoing projects then I think it would be easier to sort of see to do work at home but because it’s very much a sort of arrive and leave in these kind of very stressful and then you’re there staring at a computer all day
J: Right right, so the last thing you want to do
S: I really I really don’t want to look at a computer at all
PL: Mmm mmm
S: You know so I only I mean you use a computer that computer much more than me now and I only really use it for sort of essential you know if I have to write a letter or something
J: It’s very must isn’t it how it’s just interlocks with these other
PL: Yes
J: You know it’s a kind of identity where but also that you know what is it how how does it fit in with are you seeing it as a work tool do you see it as a creative tool is it a time saver is it you know which is interesting cos I’m sure it will change for different types of things that you could buy. You know so it would be different from shopping but but vegetable to me would be very different from shopping for clothes, unless it was a kind of (…) shopping like I need a new pair of trainers oh yeah they look good to me
PL: Well you just you don’t think that the the online services could reproduce the experience?
J: Well it’s not like they kind of like get a great thrill most of the time cos often it’s the opposite in a way
PL: Yeah
J: You know shopping, food shopping’s much more neutral whereas clothes shopping can be you know you can just end up feeling totally grim but I guess there’s much more of a kind of a sense of there is the touching feeling, not the thrill factor but I want to know the look of the fabric I want to see is it dry clean or not, not that that actually
PL: Well I was (…)
J: Maybe that’s dream sensible world I check whether it’s dry clean or not in reality I just think I like it (laughs)
PL: (laughs)
J: But um there’s something then there’s a whole thing about trying it on you know often going with and there is often quite often that kind of different 
(end of 1st side)

PL: (…) there was some news about that it’s like um office scanners. Have you heard about these?
J: No that sounds scary
PL: These are machines you go in er in your underwear and it scans you in a few
S: Yeah I saw this on the telly
PL: Seconds yeah and it gets a sort of very accurate 3d map of your body
J: Then it tells you you should be wearing kind of like
S: But I still see that as a kind of shock
J: You know you should never wear skirts above the ankle(laughs)
S: That’s like going to the opticians when they um
PL: (laughs) It doesn’t give aesthetic advice yet it’s not that sort of
S: It’s like that thing they’ve got at Dolland & Aitchson isn’t it when they take a picture of you wearing glasses
PL: Yeah yeah
S: And then play it back to you on the computer, you’ve still got to go to the shopfloor haven’t you. I mean if you know if you went into this booth
PL: Ah but the
S: So I’d go to the Internet Café and get
 PL: No no no the booth is just to scan you (1.0) and once the once the the idea is once the information’s available you can then use it online, so you could then use it online
S: Oh I see
PL: So you could then try out
S: Save it on disc
PL: Yeah
J: It sounds like a really it sounds like a kind of 21st Century version of those cut out Barbie dolls you used to have where you had those little cardboard little cardboard, not that I had one of course, but (…) playing with Cindy not, but I mean you used to like tag tip you know fold the tags over and then you had Barbie in her wedding dress and
PL: Er yes (laughs)
J: (laughs)
PL: Well these are sort of 3d rotatable images they’re quite sophisticated and you can er er try on virtually try on different clothes, try different colours and so on
S: But there’s unlikely to be a quantum leap in the next few years though in terms of the um in terms of the er two dimensional er screen that gives off too much radiation and gives you a headache after five hours I mean, I mean that’s that’s a sort of you know I mean
PL: No
S: Particularly you know I’ve become particularly I think particularly computer adverse because you know the equipment we’ve got at work is new but it’s just diabolical I mean and everyone’s getting really bad
PL: Mmm
S: You know there’s a massive problem with RSI at work um you’re totally reliant on this sort of useless mouse and horrible sort of low quality screen and an over chunky keyboard I mean it does make you very aware of the limitations of this of the whole system as a kind of data you know a data inputting and outputting system
PL: They’re not quite as (…) hologram er graphics
S: No but you know there does sort of make you sort of I think makes me kind of think you don’t you wouldn’t want the computer to really you know a lot of jobs the computer really dominates now you wouldn’t want it to sort of dominate even more
PL: Yeah yeah
S: In a sense because um (1.0) it does it’s not that sort of great benign thing that um
J: Again that’s very much about perception isn’t it about how it locks into your working life and you know so for you it’s because your you know (…) your work is very much focussed around these technologies isn’t it in a very intense way and it’s very stressful whereas I don’t have the same it’s easier for me to I think to see these things as a kind of beautiful tools as they’re not bound up for me in the same way with kind of
S: But you do still find your computer frustrating you know that it’s in
J: I’ve had it upgraded about fifteen million times I used to be able to go the loo before and it was still opening my email
PL: (laughs)
S: But what about what about that problem you had before they were it was all on one side and you went like that all the time
J: Oh yeah well no that’s yeah that is I mean they
S: I mean that wasn’t very good was it
J: Yeah no no that did become a bit of an issue but there’s still that sense of like it’s not kind of instead of being associated for me with kind of work stress where which is very different
S: You’ve been better at maintaining your working on paper skills than I’ve been (…) computers really cause me to regress slightly and so are my working methods
J: Well I do find that’s interesting isn’t it
S: I find it very difficult to write on paper now and I just you know I was thinking about this the other day cos I was sort of um you know I can’t sort of I can’t relate anymore to my sort of diary and my paper based contact system and bits of paper I just have them all stuffed in a file and things and er it’s all kind of fallen apart
PL: Uh huh
S: Whereas I used to do most of my work on you know the majority of my work on paper and then convert it onto computer later so I kind of feel like I need to get myself a Psion organiser then at least I’ll have one little machine that I can put everything into and I can forget about all these filofaxs and stuff that are like I just never never look at
J: It’s interesting though about that I mean (…) little bit (…) but one of the things my sister did yesterday her partner who’s a kind of total gadget man and (…) he’s just got one of those laptop things and um he was getting really excited because he um he was doing all these web searchs and then he went off and he met somebody and (…) kind of action points arising from it it was kind of like you know slighly work related meeting and he’d done the emails following up from that meeting on the bus home and then I didn’t even realise this cos I was on the you know I was on the internet and he just plugged it in and then email automatically sent. He was just showing me how you press it, I mean I was that makes me realise that I’m really pretty (…)
S: Well you see I (…) the kind of aspirations of moving in this direction
J: But then I find that kind of thing it’s still even though part of me kind of kind of the work ethicy thing kind of finds that attractive on the kind of tick it off task factor
PL: Right right
J: But actually I do there is something there which I think is actually (…) something that I don’t find that appealing which is that kind of like you know what do they say work rich time poor kind of thing
PL: Yeah
J: Where you know that kind of it’s got to be on demand it’s got to be now it’s got to be in the middle of the night or whenever and we kind of that kind of sense of rising expectations without a kind of
PL: But then again
J: You know what is the fallout about that like you know people having to work shitty hours or you know I’m sure that in the past working on a Sunday well working on a Sunday you would get double time whereas you get time and a half now
S: No I don’t get that
J: Cos I assumed that, you don’t get that? You (…)
S: No I don’t I get unpredictability allowance
J: But there is that thing about getting
S: (…) bad hours payments (laughs)
J: But there’s a kind of increasingly rising expectations that other people have to
S: But then again in a world of like you know no no we now live in a world of no secretarial support you know
PL: Yeah yeah
S: And in the old days you know if someone like Morris he could have sort of like gone um you know if he sort of wanted to get in contact with someone he could’ve written a letter by hand and then probably got someone to type it up for him if it was you know anything to do with work. Now I mean um we can’t do that and in that sense there is something sort of if you can sort of actually have
J: But then not with this
S: That information digital and then you can just change it slightly and whack it off
J: But a lot of the 24 hour stuff is supported by de-skilling isn’t it I mean who’s going to be driving around in your vans, unpacking your boxes of fruit and you know who’s on the other end of my co-op
S: Exactly
J: 24 hour helpline. I mean that’s the kind of flipside stuff isn’t it, both the de-skilling and the kind of pandering to that. I mean it’s difficult isn’t it cos you don’t want to do a kind of you don’t want to kind of idolise anything in the past but there is that sense of kind of what what are we prioritising are these should these expectations automatically be fulfilled, what are the costs of them? I mean um you know not that I was ever a Keep Sunday Special campaigner but you know there is something I mean I was sort of brought up in a kind of my Dad’s a vicar and until about 12 or 13 until I stopped going to church and even after it Sunday was a recognisably different day
PL: Right
J: And now other than the kind of Sunday night pre-work blues there is that sense of like you know that rhythm has really changed and changed permanently and I think that you know there’s no point being kind of really backward looking, but I think there are some questions to be asked I think that maybe aren’t asked enough or they’re asked by people where everybody would just dismiss them as Keep Sundays Specials or whatever
S: Yeah but, but (…)
J: You know that you’re seen as anti change
S: But what effect that doesn’t really effect you know kind of hardware though does it it doesn’t you know I mean that’s got the 24 hour culture hasn’t really got anything to do with Morris having a hand-held computer that he can link up with his computer and then email, I mean that doesn’t you know
J: No but it means that being
S: I think that is cos I mean you know people in our position are demanding and need to be multi-skilled these days don’t they rather than de-skilled and you know there is in that sense
J: That’s the kind of high flyers(…)
S: This is where I think that, no I no I don’t know I mean you know it’s being you know is working a telephone course necessarily worse or less challenging you know I mean I’m not saying I’m taking this in favour (…) but you know than being in a coalmine you know
J: I don’t know people the stuff in the article I was reading the other day was saying that people are unhappy doing work there for six months because
S: There are
J: It was so stressful and (…)
S: There are good and bad call centres, definitely, well there are
J: That is an, I think there
S: There are some diabolical call centres
PL: Yeah, yeah some of our students work in them
J: Yeah
PL: Alright let’s have a look at some websites and see what you think
J: And suddenly you’re going to go yeah and buy all those tomatoes I’ve seen
PL: Must get this soon
S: No but this is the thing though isn’t it, I mean I’m sort of quite in favour of hardware you know but I’m you know but in a way you’re you know I’m more comfortable with technology with the technology itself I think to some extent
J: And I’m more comfortable with the ideas
S: Yeah
J: (laughs)
S: I think that (…) about a place to deploy this stuff isn’t it I mean things like you know he uses ICQ and stuff which is grand for like chatting to people on real time in South Africa kind of thing
J: Yeah
S: Which is ideal for him whereas I don’t know any people in South Africa you know I kind of know people who get annoyed if you ring them up after 10 o clock at night you know. But also like say I got a Psion like and I was going to plug it in the back I mean I’m going to have to get you know we’ll have to we’ve got if we were to do anything we’d have to get a totally new computer um 
J: Yes but then most people would’ve thought people were more likely to have a PC(…)
S: Yeah I know well not yeah not necessarily I mean my brother’s got a laptop but you know we’d have to buy an IMAC or something you know
PL: Yeah, but do you have a a sense of yourself as buying a similar amount to other people in your position or a similar position to you?
J: As in as in hardware or?
PL: Yeah
PL: Are you sort of average or ahead or behind or?
J: I would have said behind actually
S: I was kind of ahead though
J: You were when you bought your laptop I feel like I’m kind of
S: You know I had a laptop and a mobile phone four years ago kind of thing
PL: Yeah right
S: I mean what I kind of missed the curve though slightl
PL: Right
S: Cos sort of a year later you kind of like bought laptops with modems in them and mobile phone connectors you know
PL: Yes
S: But because I sort of go for these big I don’t know I mean I don’t think I’m obviously I mean it would be a bit stupid to say I wasn’t very consumery as a person but which is not manifestly untrue by sort of the amount of stuff we kind of have
PL: Mmm
S: But like (2.0) you know I kind of only I don’t really buy that much I don’t go round spending money willy nilly
J: We don’t really
S: And I tend to just sort of buy`things on a big I bought a few big purchases in my independent spending life and that’s kind of it really
J: Most of a lot of I would’ve said more friends than not now have got PCs and I wouldn’t have said the majority of my friends have got well I don’t know actually probably much more than I think actually have got internet access, probably about half actually
S: I don’t know
J: When you think about it
S: I mean I’ve got friends who’ve sort of got work laptops and stuff
J: All other ABC1s
S: Although I don’t know I mean how many people do you know though who’ve like actually gone out and bought a big Pentium processor and shoved it on a table somewhere, I mean I don’t know that many
J: (…) I don’t know
S: Have Mary and Mike got a computer
J: Yeah
S: It’s an old one though isn’t it
J: It’s old yeah
PL: Alright, where shall we go?
S: Well I think most people I know are on they’re on their second generation stuff they’ve got off their dad
J: Let’s do Sainsburys I want you to (…)
PL: Why do you want to try Sainsburys?
S: Don’t think they’ve got one have they, Tesco have got a better one haven’t they?
PL: Yes
J: Have all of the supermarkets got one?
PL: No not all of them yet, Sainsburys, Tescos
S: Iceland have one which a friend was telling me that on the day they launched their new internet shopping service um and updated the website to say that it was being launched
J: (…) but got real estate
PL: (laughs) I don’t think we want to go there, do we want to go there? (…) buy a home. We didn’t talk about that, what about financial services and banking, looking at mortgage rates?
S: I’ve got a friend at work who’s got a co-op bank account and he pays all his bills on the internet that’s probably fairly sensible isn’t it?
PL: Yeah
S: I think I can do it with my bank but I haven’t bothered setting it up
J: I think if I wised up about it I kind of have cheques sitting round for ages because I don’t find it that easy to get to a bank well that’s my excuse but it isn’t that easy really
S: You can’t do anything about it you still couldn’t overcome the paying in a cheque someone had given you. It would help you cut your sort of bills sitting around for ages that you haven’t got round to paying in the post
J: Yeah, but I don’t know, I don’t tend to kind of think about the kind of security aspect of it but cos I always think wonder if it’s a red herring when you can so easily give your credit card details over the phone
S: Hmm, well when I was doing research into this porn film and we were looking at all these websites and you know of course you give them a number and they basically are all set up so that they’ll charge you $10 or whatever straightaway
PL: Mmm mmm
S: And then continue to charge you for ever, every month and there is a sort of
PL: Do you know this one?
S: Yeah
J: Mmm
PL: This is like the equivalent of Amazon.com but for cds
J: Oh no I would go for that
PL: It’s er internet only store they don’t have any physical sites, do you want to try it?
J: (…)
S: What? Mmm
PL: Yeah you can put in categories or you can put an artist in there
J: 10% off Blondie (3.0) (laughs)
S: They must have a special section
PL: I wonder if they have
J: (…) spell that one that would (…)
PL: (…)
J: Now wouldn’t you consider even buying a cd?
S: I don’t know, I suppose it could be of some assistance if you could actually hear what it is (…) machine plugged in to what the hell’s going on (…)
PL: It’s not great is it?
S: That’s a list isn’t it it must be going on a bit (…)
J: It’s quite interesting visually isn’t it as it’s pretty dull and that’s what I was thinking yesterday
S: Yeah where’s the kind of big picture of him
J: Yeah
PL: I think there’s was an inclination that ecommerce web design at the moment to
J: Quite straightforward not to kind of bombard people
PL: Not (…)
J: Too much, yeah
S: Yeah this is the (…) you often get these in Amazon, where they just don’t say anything you know
PL: (…) oh right yeah yeah
S: Let’s put Blur in instead
PL: Not so impressed with (…)(8.0) Might get a picture now
S: What’ll improve things on the internet I think is this um (2.0) who was it who was saying it, I was reading some article the other day about this bloke saying that Slate magazine are probably going to abandon their subscription system cos it doesn’t work and that’s the new one 13 that’s coming out tomorrow or something, um that’ll be better you know. There’s too many sort of hidden charges in a lot of places. I think you click on there
J: Cos it’s quite sensitive
PL: It is, you can change the sensitivity, it’s best to touch it very gently
J: You would hope there’s a (…)
PL: It’s a (…) long I think this one
J: Yeah (6.0) Cos would this fall into your category of like that you’d want to go into a music shop and
S: Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz This would fall into my category of
J: (laughs)
S: You know this is where I start going come on! I’ve only got five minutes
(all laugh)
S: Someone’ll come round and ask me what I’m doing in a minute
J: But no but seriously would you, cos I think this is a bit like me with the kind of book where if I knew what I wanted or I wanted to find out about
S: I know, I never know I don’t buy very much music so I don’t know, if it played you the tunes that’d be alright
PL: It does (6.0)
S: There we are have a look at this one
PL: It’s only got, they’ve not got the sound for that one on yet
S: Oh oh alright
PL: They’ve got record reviews and they’ve got
J: Let’s hear the sound
PL: Which one do you want to hear? S: The top one
J: Yeah
PL: (…)
J: Chinese bombs
S: This never works at work they’ve disabled all the (…)
PL: Have they?
S: Yes so you can’t even watch the stuff on the (…)
J: It’s kind of like playing the (…)
S: I think that’s what it sounds like in real life
PL: Yeah this is not bad it’s coming over in stereo, should be
S: Oh yes it’s little filler (4.0)
(all laugh)
J: There you go then, let’s get it
S: Er probably yeah that is the record
PL: Get the cluster net right let’s try that one (8.0) now this is mono this time (plays Blur)
J: Have most of them got music? Have most of them got the music linked to (…)
PL: (…) yeah
J: Yeah you see I think that’s great (laughs)
S: Yeah but you’re more interested in music than me I’m not really that bothered
J: (laughs)
S: I can take it or leave it, well I can you know not like my friend who buys every cd in the whole world and then doesn’t he hasn’t anywhere to put them (10.0)
PL: Have you seen these malls? (13.0)
S: (…)
PL: Yes (15.0) This is a virtual shopping mall. You have a range of different (3.0) stores in it
J: TV, Hifi, Classic Prints
S: Classic Prints?
J: You can just position it you know in the room so you can work out what colours and that could solve a dilemma of you know co-ordinating posters
S: Yeah
J: (laughs) Endless possibilities (2.0)
PL: Which one’s this, the videos?
J: (…) TV
PL: Oh right (20)
S: Er no we don’t want that one (4.0)
J: They’re coming back (10.0)
S: Er (…) trying to look at Classic Prints
J: Yeah, let’s have a look it makes me laugh (8.0) Are Athena online?
PL: I think Athena are online actually
S: Wooah fantastic (…) old towns
PL: Why not
J: Are you just tapping it?
PL: Yeah (3.0)
J: Free delivery (18.0)
PL: (…) historical theatre in this site, heritage 
S: Hmm
PL: Online (10.0)
J: Click on it
PL: There’s some posters here (4.0)
J: (…)
PL: I know it’s weird isn’t it (3.0) I can see my nine year old playing computer games with it it’s quite funny
J: Oh God and they’ll all take absolutely ages won’t they (8.0)
PL: What does that say?
J: Something High Street, 1900
S: (…) North Kent coast
PL: (…)
J: So what d’you reckon
PL: I can see you’re gripped by this
S: Don’t like shopping
PL: Laughs
S: Do you like shopping?
J: Well
PL: Well I think this is do you like shopping I mean it’s not like being on the web generally or being online?
S: Er (5.0) Well no I don’t know, if you don’t want it you kind of don’t want it do you I suppose in a way
PL: Mmm (5.0)
S: I suppose there are certain areas in which to go window shopping but then that’s just a sort of exercise in itself, that’s where you went, before
J: It’s just given me a kind of
PL: Yeah well that’s
S: That’s all it is, it’s just where you
J: Oh I see right
PL: Like checkout
J: Right (4.0) Yes you see you do have to kind of
S: (…) (19.0)
J: End of (…) (3.0)
PL: Try Interflora that’s (…)
J: And (…) really carefully (…) your flowers (2.0) It is funny though isn’t it it’s kind of like, I mean it is quite earie when I can see you sitting there with TV on or music playing or something and you just sit down and (3.0) flower chooser (12.0) What are they Gerberer?
S: No idea
J: Let’s go for that then (2.0) Go find (…) (4.0)
S: The other thing is I mean a lot of the stuff that you can buy on the net is sold by large multinational corporations and I’ve kind of gone a bit sort of
J: What about Somerfield?
S: Well I know that
J: (laughs) They’re all locally grown producers aren’t they round the round the corner in Willesden Green
S: No but I do buy some stuff from the little you know well I wouldn’t want all my you know you don’t want all your shopping to sort of
PL: Well what about
S: Well living in an area like this is obviously is a whole load of people’s lives dependent on these shops you know if you’re working in them you know if the bakery round the corner is shut and replaced by Somerfield it would be a bad day for decent bread (3.0) And anyway I know I should buy more fruit and veg from the other shops but I don’t cos it takes too long doesn’t it? (2.0)
PL: What about the argument that you’re going to be able direct say from farms in the West Country when
J: You can get your you can get your organic vegetable basket can’t you (laughs)
PL: Yes yes yes
S: You can get that anywhere you don’t need to go on the internet to get it you can ring up organic vegetable basket deliverers in the Yellow Pages
PL: (laughs)
J: (5.0) You see something like this would be convenient it’s the convenience factor isn’t it
S: Yeah but sometimes you know you just sort of you know the Yellow Pages or ringing Scoot up on the phone can be a whole lot more effective than looking Scoot up on the internet
PL: Mmm
J: Yeah no that’s true actually
S: Just in the same way that ringing rail enquiries is quicker than booting up the computer and logging on to the (11.0)
PL: I do like that? When you can send a message as well
S: To the Amazon Factor (2.0) It would be alright if you wanted to send flowers to someone a long way away wouldn’t it?
PL: Yeah
J: (…) compares pricewise
S: Interflora’s expensive anyway isn’t it
PL: Yes it is £26.00
J: Yeah
S: It’s expensive to get Interflora from anywhere
PL: That’s true (4.0)
S: I’ve never bought Interflora before actually, I think (5.0)
PL: We’ve moved (9.0)
J: Now that’s (6.0) no you have to pay
S: (…)
PL: This is up to date stuff
J: How does that work if you click on that?
PL: Try it (6.0)
J: How easy (…) (5.0)
S: (…) (6.0) I hate registering for things you have to register for everything
PL: Mhmm mhmm
S: I mean you even have to register to read The Guardian which
J: See now that is quite a hassle factor in terms of like when I was ringing the co-op I completely embarrassed myself over the weekend by not remembering my own password and um and the idea of having I already feel like I’ve got about four too many passwords that I can actually remember and I’m starting to think that
S: Yeah I’ve registered for a whole load of stuff in the course of stuff at work and I can’t remember any of it
PL: That’s right
J: Where do you actually
PL: And they won’t let you miss out one of the paths like okay I don’t want a password for this
J: Yeah
S: There’s been quite a lot of hasn’t there, there’s been all this stuff around I think it was from these complaints in The Guardian’s online section they were all moaning about the fact that when you register at (…) Cookies or whatever they’re called
PL: That’s right
S: What’re they? 
PL: I’ll show you (laughs) (2.0) Have you heard of Cookies?
J: No
PL: Oh
S: Saves stuff onto your hard disc or something doesn’t it?
PL: Certainly does (2.0) Oh hang on before we do that I’ll just show you this since we talked about the supermarkets let’s have a look at them
J: It’s interesting that thing because you think potentially if it wasn’t for the charge you’d think much better than trooping out to buy a loo, get it first thing in the morning if you’re hunting you need to you know you can find it at 7.30 and off you go but the reality’s actually a little bit more
PL: That’s right
J: Bit more hassley
S: And there’s a lot of chance I mean I
J: Do you suppose we have to pay £1.30 every time you access the latest?
PL: I don’t know I haven’t tried them
J: Especially if you keep having to give your credit
PL: Looked like it didn’t it?
J: You have to give your credit card everytime presumably for that
PL: Yes
S: Not everytime, once you’ve registered
PL: Once you’ve registered
S: Charge it, just keep charging it every time you do it
J: You see that does as
S: You can’t control it
J: As somebody doesn’t check my statement that’s fantastic (…) kind of thing would
S: I mean I get the Far East & Economic Review emailed to me every week but you know I get a sort of menu emailed to me and you can only read about the first two articles
PL: Mmmh 
S: Which is a kind of you know it’s more like I don’t mind them saying you just can’t read it go and buy it in the shop but when they kind of want to charge you to read it (2.0) it’s a bit much (11.0)
J: Let’s just go straight for those tomatoes
PL: You’ve got to be a customer to get there
J: And what does that mean?
PL: You can try it out
J: Right
PL: Well you have to have registered with them and you have to have a Tesco Clubcard and stuff
J: Right (1.0) See again that’s interesting isn’t it about
S: You’d better shut down the Clubcard to go into Tescos in fact you’re probably mad if you haven’t got one seeing as
J: Well I haven’t got one so
S: Yeah I know but Sainsbury’s are always going where’s your Reward Card? It’s their trick cos like they’re trying to give you about ten quid back
J: Right, ok so fruit and vegetables sounds at the moment (…)
PL: (laughs)
J: Tomatoes
PL: Now is this going to be an adequate tomato experience?
J: (laughs) So you can make the supermarket (…)
PL: Nice colours, doesn’t that feel peaceful?
J: Don’t go to a pear
S: Why not? We’ve been getting pears all week (7.0)
J: See what really interests me as well is it
S: What’s that?
J: Would really change your shopping cos I didn’t notice different varieties of pear when I go into kind of Somerfield I just select
S: You just get a right old load of weird stuff, you don’t want to like some sort of conference pears and
J: (laughs) No but I remember when I was at Liz’s and we were looking at I don’t know whether it was Tescos but we were looking at a selection of bacon I mean I know I’m a bit clueless about bacon because I veggie but I wouldn’t have the faintest idea about
PL: Well it is an issue cos like you can see that list there (…) it’s all
J: Yeah
PL: Product descriptions
J: Yeah no which isn’t very user isn’t very user friendly
PL: No
J: Especially not with I mean most of it is done visually so it’s quite weird then to be suddenly presented with it in list form
PL: Exactly exactly
J: It would be much better to kind of if if it’s supposed to be replicating well is it supposed to be replicating your supermarket’s (…)? That’s a question in itself isn’t it, but you for me it would be kind of like you’re going into the supermarket, first of all you hit the vegetables, you know in the same way that there’s a kind of psychology of the supermarket
PL: That’s right that’s right
J: About the way they set things up you’d have the same psychology of this and at the end would be your you know you can buy some tights or chocolate bar that  you might remember at the cashpoint or
PL: These are online services, they couldn’t possibly reproduce that experience
J: No but there’s a kind of there’s still a kind of
PL: Hence this listing
J: Yeah
S: The thing is I mean I only select I select products in the supermarket on the basis of er um
J: What about
S: What I got last time and whether they’ve been reduced
J: So you’re not going to get your you’re not going to get your (…) past their best before date bargains and things are you, cos that’s what my mum would say
PL: (laughs)
S: Yeah and also
J: How’re you going to get your like (…)
S: It’s not throwing forward this weeks reduced loaf either is it?
PL: Well now there are plans to do that
S: Oh (…)
PL: Because one of the things that supermarkets are doing is collecting a lot of information from the Clubcards sort of
S: Mmm
PL: And Rewardcards and they’re going they’re storing that information and they’re hoping to be able to use that to be able to make targetted offers to customers when they come online
S: Mmm
J: That’s quite
PL: They haven’t got round to that yet (…)
J: It’s all part of that general thing isn’t it about how much information they have about your shopping which is part of the Clubcard thing anyway I mean that’s not just the (…) thing is it?
PL: You were saying before about (…) shopping at the moment is anonymous?
S: Absolutely
PL: Whereas here they’re going to know more and more about you everytime as they analyse your purchases
S: Anyway I think it’s all bull because I mean they’ll put in they’ll have filmed you on 37 cameras in the supermarket as well
PL: (laughs)
J: (laughs) I wonder if  they can match you up so they can (…) STaylor they know what you look like
S: Well I mean if anyone
J: And then there’ll be but then you see then you then you get my
S: It’s only it’s only it’s only when you want to hide that you realise you can’t 
PL: (laughs) That’s right
J: (laughs) But then you’ll get through your door the kind of like STaylor specially designed tomato which is like genetically modified
PL: That’s right
J: To meet your personal (…) and (…) you know and it will have STaylor like you know that’ll be the shape of the little green thing on top and it’ll spell STaylor
S: Well yeah all the things that make you know a lot of the things that make Britain good compared compared
PL: What is this, (…)?
S: Well I don’t know what happened there (laughs)
J: (laughs) Like you said
S: You’ve deactivated your Cookies then
PL: No actually yes I’ll show you the Cookies
S: Um you know one of the things I like about this country though is the fact that like well in the past it used to be all sort of ramshackle and you could fool about and no-one really cared and it’s not like Switzerland where people shout at you and look through the curtains all night and stuff that they can you know
J: (laughs) I’m not going to make any generalisations obviously
S: Well no but I mean you know there used to be you you
J: Not that it’s like that in small villages is it
S: No but London is kind of like um you know it’s a City you know was a City of anonymity and kind of individuality wasn’t it and now it’s a kind of City of Starbucks
J: (laughs) Oh what a load of old nonsense
S: That’s true
PL: Swhat have we got here? (2.0) Right okay, so right here we are this is our what we’ve just done isn’t it
J: So what’re you doing? You’re you’re storing
PL: No I’m not, the sites revisited  to deposit information about our visit to our disc while we’re online
J: Right right
PL: So we’ve (…) on and now some of the given information it’s coded information I don’t know how to interpret it
J: Right right
PL: And then some of the other sites that we went to also added
J: And then what’s
PL: And that’s Cookies and when we next go online with someone they can read these Cookies and they can see who else we’ve visited
J: Ooh
PL: And get some information about what we what our online (…) was
J: And you can’t do anything to stop that?
PL: Well I can delete these Cookies now
J: But they’re still that doesn’t mean that somebody else can’t get access to them?
PL: Yes it does
J: Oh it does
PL: I can get rid of them
J: Right
PL: But um not everyone knows about them, it’s like Amazon I’m really into it
J: Could they track you track you (…)
S: It’s how they do all this stuff like hello again J Reindorp um
J: Tescos shopper
S: Today we’ve got on you know
J: (…)
S: The put on stories like well The Guardian claim that they’re doing it so it can allow you to kind of you’re given the latest housing news everytime you log on
PL: That’s right
S: You can go I’m really interested in housing but I think that again that’s sort of slightly something there is I do find there’s something slightly bizarre about this kind of wonderful world in which you’ll be able to log on and it immediately gets all the news you want about tennis kind of thing
PL: Yes
S: And then you’ll never sort of read any other anything else again cos all the extraneous information that used to be quite interesting occasionally in the paper will have been filtered out
PL: But that’s right that’s the idea it’s supposed to be some sort of filtering mechanism so again you (…)
J: But again it’s the same time factor or demand isn’t it
PL: Yeah yeah yeah
J: A kind of convenient society
S: Mmm
J: Interesting, cos you always kind of think it’s a bit of a kind of um arbitrary (…) you know like a lot of things in the 50s and 60s that were time saving you know like the whole kind of revolution of domestic appliances which you know I think have been really central to kind of freeing up well I mean there’s not it’s not to be kind of exaggerated is it but there have been a lot of those things where to kind of say oh yes they kind of save time then it would be hard to portray them as retrograde so is it then kind of quite arbitrary when you say it’s becoming when you say it’s alarming and scary is quite an arbitrary personal thing isn’t it and when do you say well it’s all freeing us up for this fantastic leisure time and self fulfillment and
S: Mmm but the you know that the the fridge wasn’t hardwired into a communications interface er which state agencies are making great efforts to police and control at all levels I mean you know
J: Yeah this surveillance stuff is something different
S: Well there’s a lot of surveillance related to this
J: And the kind of marketing
S: I mean there’s some really quite sinister stuff exposed not too long ago about um plans within the European Commission um to sort of set up a sort of pan-European um telecommunications monitoring system and it was all going on in total secret and um the European Parliament didn’t know anything about it at all (2.0)
J: Mmm
S: Oh dear I mean I (…) thing when the Police were trying to convince everyone that they were they were you know play it all by the rules when it came to um seizing email and um crimes and stuff but um
J: It’s very hard though isn’t it because all of that (…) surveillance and all the kind of high tech marketing is all tied in together, it’s not like you can separate one thing from the other
S: It’s (…)
J: There is a kind of without wanting to be too determalistic about it there is a kind of logic that in the same way that a lot of these things have already happened round the Clubcard about finding out information about your purchases, it’s now happening and that’s not just about the net is it it was already something that supermarkets have been on to quite separately from that just like if you ordered a catalogue where you gave any information on a form
S: Sure
J: You’d unless you tick your box, I mean which admittedly they give you that option they’ll automatically be sending you linked products I mean 
S: But I think the box ticking is kind of going away a bit you know
PL: Yes
S: I think there people aren’t putting a box on that much anymore cos like you know with I mean satellite telly you know
J: (…)
S: Well no but no but there’s new ways in which you can kind of get round it like you know to get Sky Digital you have to agree to have an extra phone line put down which
(end of tape)


Ut25

User trial 25, 26.03.99, C2DE single female 18-35, High IT

LM: OK so I work at University College London and we’re doing research on Internet and Internet shopping
A: They don’t do business courses at UCL do they?
LM: No I don’t think so
A: I (...)
LM: You wanted to do a course there or you wanted to do a business course?
A: Is it a college or a uni
LM: It’s a university but London, it’s part of London University (2.0) Okay, what do you do?
A: Business and finance
LM: And you’ve got a computer?
A: Yeah an NVQ I finish in July and then I want to do HND I work for S
LM: Yeah. Where’s S based?
A: I don’t even know they have branches everywhere, I know they have a branch in Barbican
LM: Uh huh
A: I don’t know where the rest is, I’ve got to go to G but the course won’t be taking place there but B college
LM: Right 
A: Actually I’m going to W College now I wanted to go to Uni but they don’t do HND so... 
LM: So you’ve got a computer here, yeah, do you use it for like college work?
A: Yeah, (...)
LM: Do you e-mail friends?
A: Yeah, friends, college [laughs] I don’t even know the e-mail address It’s for friends and stuff, friends in America cause a load of my family’s in America I don’t really e-mail people much, they e-mail me and I only e-mail back
LM: Do you use the Net?
A: Yeah, sometimes, I erm the last time I couldn’t figure it out and had to get my boyfriend to come and do it for me
LM: Uhhuh
A: I have this CD ROM thing with the Internet thing on it I don’t know
LM: What sort of stuff have you used it for?
A: Erm, finding jobs, stuff like that, news, what else? Erm different stuff, I can’t think anything of my head right now
LM: OK, have you heard of shopping on the Net
A: Yeah, oh actually listen to music on the Net
LM: Yeah? What sort of erm 
A: I went through e-mail thing erm (3.0) you know you get into the e-mail thing and they show news and stuff and you pick what you want and I picked news or interests and they had music so I clicked on it One of my friends told me (...) and my boyfriend was arguing with her, it’s not free you have to pay for it I (...) they didn’t play the whole thing, maybe two minutes of the song
LM: Right, yeah
A: Different albums so you can listen before you buy it
LM: OK, so you’ve never bought anything on the Net?
A: No (.) I don’t think I will, unless it’s something I know I can’t get in the shops easily I never really looked at it, I mean I see the adverts but I always cancel them and clear it off I’m not really interested
LM: That’s OK, that’s (…) we’re trying to figure out whether Internet shopping is going to take off
A: It probably will but at the moment it’s erm, the only kind of shopping I don’t do in the shops is mail order and that’s with catalogues and stuff, I guess maybe because nobody I know has ever used... but then the stuff that they sell I, I saw um this Viagra thing on the Internet [laughs] which I don’t need [laughs]
A: I don’t know, I guess I haven’t seen anything I’m interested in buying (.) Most of the time unless I’m looking for something in particular or I’m really bored, that’s when I look through the Internet, I read the news about music and movies and you know just stuff
LM: OK And what sort of stuff do you buy with catalogues?
A: Clothes, shoes, kitchen stuff, mm mainly things I mean clothes sometimes, I only buy clothes (...) umm, I don’t know, I shop with Dorothy Perkins and stuff all the things I can go to the shops and buy and stuff, sometimes if I don’t think I have the time to go shopping for something I just do it because they have twenty four hours delivery mm and Littlewoods catalogue,what did I buy from there? I bought my modem from Littlewoods
LM: Really? A: Yeah, and I bought erm erm something really important What, what, what, what, what? (8.0) Can’t remember I buy lots of stuff, sometimes video tapes, erm I mean when I order from catalogue, it’s things I can’t buy in the shop not because they never sold em because the catalogue sell late, last season Most of ‘em, especially clothes only a few of ‘em sometimes sell things that are in now Like clothing I went to (...) Wednesday and (...) they sell them in Littlewoods, but it’s last years stuff so it’s mainly stuff I didn’t get to buy last year that I buy from there
LM: OK A: Sometimes the size is funny, mostly I’m twelve...
LM: Do you find it easy to change stuff?
A: Yeah I guess Internet Shopping would be about the same I suppose
LM: Yeah
A: (...) Sorry
LM: I’ll set up the Internet link You’ve got quite a lot of nice equipment in here
A: Yeah
LM: Big gadget fan
A: I’m a music freak
LM: I’ll show you one of the sites that’s really big, a CD shop in space
A: The thing is right, yeah, most of my family’s in America, so they don’t really send me stuff but I’m very very current in music, there’s nothing going on in the stuff I like so this magazine, I sell in this area that tells you (...) (coughs) excuse me, the past two months I spent... I don’t know how much I spent on CD’s About nine hundred pound, cause for maybe three months I didn’t buy any CD’s left everything then went on a shopping spree, I had to buy a new CD Rack, (...) one of my friends tried it and she was on the line for ages and ages, cos everybody else is trying to call in
(30.0)
A: Are you doing the market research for the college?
LM: No it’s just like a research project but we use market research people like (...)
A: Is that the course you’re doing?
LM: It’s not a course, it’s full time research for one of the lecturers Just trying to figure whether commercial stuff on the Net is going to take off
A: How many days a week do you work?
LM: Five
A: I wouldn’t mind doing market research
LM: Yeah it’s dead interesting
(background noise)
LM: Right, I’ll see if I can get this CD site, yeah, here we go Right So you’re familiar with this mouse, just touch it... Hit return, yeah, have a look around, follow different links
A: Click here right? 
LM: Yeah and you can type in there Hit return, yeah OK, if you scroll down there it’ll give you a list of matches OK
A: Yeah, this is, OK
LM: If you click on that you’ll get a full list
(Phone sounds)
(Conversation in background)
A: What’s it doing?
LM: Got a bit confused when the phone went  Is that the land line phone? The same line?
A: This one?
LM: Yeah
A: I connected this to this one, the other is in the cable in there Should we be using that one?
LM: No, no I just don’t understand what’s going on here Maybe I’ll just go out of it and come back in again So annoying
(28.5)
If you need that one, we’ll plug it into the other one as it’s not going to work if you’re on the phone I’ll close this all up
(Background phone conversation)
LM: All right I’ll try it again If you answer it it’ll cut into the connection
(Background noise)
A: (...)
LM: Don’t worry about it it’s fine
A: So can you listen to it on this one?
LM: Yeah (30.0) Right let’s try
A: So how much is this worth?
LM: This machine? About fifteen hundred
Here it is Any of these things underlined you can click on and that where you’ve got music
A: (...)
LM: Yeah go for it The price on these is going down loads, we had one before and it got stolen And it cost like half as much to replace as when we got it a year ago So maybe it’s worth waiting, I don’t know Again you can scroll down for more information (15.5) It doesn’t tell you all that much about the video, but go back and...
A: (...) So you have to but it off here?
LM: What do you mean?
A: Tell you what shops you could buy it from
LM: No, CD Now is just like an on-line shop really
A: OK, OK, (...)
LM: It’ll show you web-links, if there’s anything on there about D’Angelo
A: It’s gone off again
LM: No it’s fine
A: So it has to go back and find D’Angelo again
LM: No, if you just go back there, it should take you to the site I think Oh, maybe not Try again and go back a page, oh OK, all right OK, you’ll probably have to search for it again Click the sursor there
A: Oh, sorry
LM: No, no (4.0) Just hit return 
A: Like some coffee?
LM: If you’re making some [laughs]
(Background noise) 
LM: Just trying to get it to play something
(Music)
A: So it’s got a list of all the tracks on the album?
LM: Yeah
A: (...) LM: It’s only got a mono speaker
A: You can’t play the whole thing Let’s go to the next track...
(music)
LM: To stop it click there Do you want to try something else you don’t know?
A: You said earlier there’s a live album I want to see if I can get that
LM: Go back then and see that list What’s that [laughs] OK
A: Blackstreet
(background noise)
LM: OK
A: Should be a (...) under the letter
LM: OK There you go (4.0) You have to go to that first because it’s underlined I don’t know why
A: Really
LM: The things that are underlined or are in blue are links 
A: So I have to go back yeah?
LM: No if you scroll down it should give you a list of erm the albums  Haven’t got that much information about that one Probably have to go down again to look at the review There you go
A: I want to listen to it
LM: Yeah but for some reason it hasn’t got those little musical notes
A: Too new
LM: Yeah probably
A: My boyfriend’s (...)
LM: Is it out here?
A: Yeah 
LM: Stevie Wonder
A: Where?
LM: There This is a list of them, you know on the other one it had a list of all the ones you could listen to underlined, it obviously isn’t going to play you any of the music
A: Yeah it’s like the arrows don’t go anywhere
LM: Can I show you some other features of this It’s sort of like things they’re doing to make you want to use it Urm, there’s this thing called My CD Now which is like if you use it regularly and log in in your own account it’ll save lots of information about...
A: I think I tried that the other day and it goes straight to this Internet thing and shows like it’s saving Does it save it
LM: It sort of saves the information about what you do on the site If I log in here it has information about all the stuff I have on my wish list, you know it says buy this now or save to wish list, if you asve it, then it erm makes a list of all the things you want to buy and uses that information to try and sell you other things Idon’t quite know why it thinks I like Sheena Easton [laughs] basically it’s trying to use information about the stuff I like to sell me other things so, see if I can find it, erm, wish list
A: So the list you do is it always about computers
LM: At the moment Here we go stuff I’ve said I wanted to buy at some point, so it’s like a list and any time I want to buy them I can just click on...
A: So have you bought stuff?
LM: Yeah, three or four things, so I can click on all these things, and that’ll put them in my shopping basket, that’ll delete it and gift registry is this wierd thing where anybody you know can buy you gifts like a wedding present list
A: So, go through your e-mails How would they get through?
LM: It’d be friends who like use the Internet, and they could say what do you want for your birthday, I could say, well I’ve got a list on the Net I don’t think it’s taken off very much here, but if you go, click on here it should take you straight to Stevie Wonder, don’t think oh it has...
(music)
LM: (...) so would that sort of thing appeal to you, being able to keep a list of...
A: Yeah CD’s I can’t wait for cause I want to buy it and listen to it I mean how long does it take to deliver?
LM: Well you’re ordering from the states so it probably takes a week or two
A: Do you have to pay for postage and packing
LM: Yeah and you pay sort of depending on how many you buy
A: (...) and I usually buy my CD’s from Virgin and there’s this place in Brixton (...) and he sells all his CD’s for ten pounds and they’re not fake, just imported, I mean they get it before HMV
LM: Someties I think the only advantage of this is it’s really quite cheap, like Stevie Wonder’s eight dollars, which is only a fiver, so even with post and packing it’s still cheaper
A: I didn’t realise the price was in dollars
LM: Yeah, they are cheaper All right, let me show you another site, anyway What about doing your groceries shopping?
A: No way
LM: No way?
A: Unless I want to get maple syrup
[laughs] Maple syrup and chapsticks The smell is different
LM: OK, so Tesco’s is one of the first supermarkets to go on-line
A: Sure, I shop at Tesco’s all the time
LM: Mm-hmm but in Tesco How would you feel ordering over the Net
A: Do they show you all the discount stuff?
LM: Yeah, I think so What you’ve got with Tesco’s
A: They do a lot of promotion stuff, Sometimes, I don’t know, they can’t show you every single item in the 
LM: They list them, do it in list form so you say have to go into
A: Biscuit and they show you the brands
LM: Yeah, and the sizes and everything
A: (...) But shopping is fun for me, I love shopping
LM: Even grocery shopping
A: Yeah Well not if I go on my own If I go with my boyfriend it’s fun I don’t know I suppose I could use it Do they deliver on the same day?
LM: I think they deliver next, no actually I think they deliver the same day if you order before a certain time Like before ten in the morning
A: That’s not bad How much do you pay?
LM: Five pounds delivery regardless of how much you spend (4.0) Let’s try this... Internet Superstore OK, we’re not an existing customer Do the guest thing All right, have a go and see what...
A: Shopping basket... so do you have to pay a certain amount to be a member
LM: No I think it’s probably free registration I mean...
A: You might as well join it rather than shopping as a guest, you get to use everything
LM: Yeah right, I mean at the moment we can’t buy anything because we don’t have an account erm, but I just want to show you what it’s like, but once you register if they deliver in your area...
(28.0)
LM: Yeah choose like off-license and it breaks it down into different things... Fruit flavoured wine Wow And that’s it, that’s all I got that’s not very much Strange let’s try something else, erher, ah oh well Let’s try (...) What do you think of the speed?
A: This is quite quick I mine doesn’t especially when I when they send me e-mail that’s got pictures and stuff it takes sometimes two, three minutes for everything to show, it’ll show background, then say (...) this is quite quivk
LM: I was just thinking, that CD one I do at work and it takes forever, maybe it’s just a bad connection at work
A: That might be because other people are using them at the same time
LM: Yeah What do you reckon?
A: These are like powders and stuff, make up What’s that make-up they’re always advertising, Max Factor? Can’t remember
LM: Could be oh it’s coming up with it
A: Do I have to go (...)
LM: No, that’s all you get of it That’s pretty wierd I suppose It’s got 94 products Mmm
A: (...) better with showing us, colours and stuff, I mean I’m very particular about lipstick colours
LM: Yeah, I mean you won’t buy without seeing it
A: I mean certain products (...) might have colour like (...) and Max Factor be slightly different Let’s look at creams 
LM: Have to go back to health and beauty (...) 
A: Is that the same thing there? Yes I think it is
LM: OK, that’s all they’ve got of Vichy... What about buying something like this where you don’t need to see the colour so much?
A: Sometimes erm, sometimes you need to see the size of something
LM: Mmmmhm

A: ...I want to get that instead now if I see the size of that and I bought it here I would want to take it back, you know cause I don’t want to pay that much for that much
LM: Yeah
A: I mean some things I mean I’m sure it does things but you can’t see what it does and it looks like a normal lotion so probably because they just started they can’t show too much
LM: ‘Cos it’d take a lot more power on the computer to do it
A: Yeah, even if it’s just...
LM: Here they’ve got 50, 150 200 mil but that doesn’t, you’re maybe more used to comparing different things in a row, whatever, OK, so would you be more into this if it were more picture based?
A: Yeah, I mean if I didn’t have time to go shopping then I would buy from here, but apart from that, a situation where I can’t do it that’s when (...) 
LM: Is there any kind of shopping you don’t like?
A: Well, food shopping can be annoying sometimes, but (...) Then again... So do they sell fruits aswell?
LM: Fruit? Yeah How do you feel about buying fruit and veg on... 
A: Like to see what I’m getting, cause stuff like bananas I don’t like ripe bananas, I like them hard I want them to bring me (...) apples, yeah but they’re not going to bring you the one they show (...)
LM: Could be either of those couldn’t it
A: (...) strawberries and stuff
LM: yeah, they’re out of season
A: Kiwi
LM: Oooh mango, berries, currants Let’s see what the other exotic fruits are... Ugly fruit
A: What?
(Laughs)
A: I want to know what that looks like!
LM: Pomelow, I have no idea
A: (...) (Laughs)
A: Kiwano, leech, kumquats, (...) OK, what’s next
LM: I was going to see if we could find a clothes shop Might start by seeing if Littlewoods have got a shop on-line... no
A: Try Dorothy Perkins
LM: Yeah some firms are getting on line even if they don’t sell stuff, Morgan, actually yeah, I know Diesel do
(background noise)
A: Try Diesel
LM: Yeah, I know that works Right Might have to be standard, cause we don’t have Shockwave
A: It’s clothes I might consider buying because if I see, clothing you can see Spring Summer 99,
LM: Fragrances, stores, catalogue, (...) OK 
A: Show us some clothes
LM: Yeah it looks like you can sign up for a catalogue... 
A: Stop
LM: Just click on that cross and it should get us out... maybe not Try Female
A: I mean if it showed you pictures of the clothing and all you had to do was pt in your credit card and stuff and they just send it
LM: Yeah, it’s pretty much like that actually
A: OK
LM: Probably scroll down to see more stuff... No That looks like it Let’s try (...)
A: What’s that? Looks like rocks
LM: Have a pink T-shirt or some rocks
A: 16.99
LM: Quite nice but I look bad in pink In blue too
A: OK This won’t show you...
LM: Yeah think so
A: Yeah let’s go back to, see what it’s like Does it let you select size and stuff
LM: Yeah if you
A: If it’s just credit card shopping
LM: Yeah, you want it in medium in blue, you should be able to... just go to sales Shall we go and see what happens... ooh
(...) flock, four pounds post and packing quite a lot Do you pay post and packing on stuff you buy from catalogues?
A: Mmmm, two pounds I think, more four express delivery So how do you pay?
LM: Like thise-mail, probably don’t need that 
A: Age: mind your own business
[laughs] 
LM: Occupation hmm, here they’re trying to get information about you
A: I don’t want 
LM: Yeah how do you
A: it’s nice they put that there, but then again how do you pay, do you go down...
LM: Yeah, they’re delivery address so it could go to someone else, ah, haven’t filled anything in yes Better fill in some stuff
A: Give a bogus name!
LM: Yeah, I mean some of this stuff they need, other stuff they want to find put
A: can always say (...)
LM: Uh huh
A: (...) LM: I might as well put my name in I’m not going to actually send it OK, county mind your own business See how much we can get away with not putting in Ahah E-mail address all they want
A: (...) 
LM: OK Looks perfectly reasonable OK, ready to go
A: (...)
LM: I think it’s ready with the information
A: We go down a screen and it asks for more
LM: Terms and conditions, 3 day delivery, not bad
A: (...)
LM: OK, so if you got the wrong size it’ll change and deliver, doesn’t say whether you can send it back for free presumably with Littlewoods you have to pay to send it back
A: I guess you have to send it through the Post Office, seven days
LM: OK, it’s got the number
A: Continue
LM: Card number
A: I could actually use this So that’s the value of everything you ordered, you should give them the e-mail address OK let’s try another company then Right, how do you cancel
LM: Just exit
A: Yeah, you haven’t paid 
LM: What about this collecting lots of information about you, what do you
A: I don’t like that
LM: Whay not?
A: Because they have that information, they’re going to keep sending junk-mail, and I mean, they send me all this porno stuff
LM: Really
A: ‘Cos in the interest things, they tell you what you choose and all of a sudden I start gett ing all this junk mail, you know people I don’t know and they send loads of junk mail
LM: And it’s directly to you
A: Teen girls going wild and it’s funny sometimes
LM: What about with the CD site where they collect information about you to send you stuff that’s like to try and advertise
A: CD stuff I don’t mind It’s really up to you I guess I wouldn’t like, people, people use look at all this stuff that happens to stars when they use their pictures, that porno stuff on the Net, uhuh (5.0) I don’t mind this because I mean they the only thing is you give them the right card numbers, name age and stuff, but e-mail I wouldn’t because they’d send me stuff and I have enough junk mail already There’s not much here though
LM: It’s just a small server at the moment Is that just one pair of trousers they’ve got there? Just one That’s like three jackets Hardly see them Maybe if you click on them
A: This you can hardly see
LM: Hardly an incentive to buy it
A: They’re just starting anyway
LM: Yeah, it’ll get better, more powerful modems and PC’s better pictures 
A: So I can do this on my computer, right
LM: Yeah, if you’ve got access to the Net, yeah
A: Find another shop then
LM: Just trying to think... I used to have a good list of stuff Might see if I can find the address for Dorothy Perkins as well
A: What’s that one
LM: That was http://www.diesel.co.uk I’m just using a search engine here to see if I can find Dorothy Perkins I’m sure they’ve got a web-site
A: Dorothy Perkins, the stuff in the catalogue is in the shop, but some of them aren’t
LM: Let’s try (...) Arcadia group must be the people that own... yeah look Oh SU214 a new men’s shop
A: Let’s see
LM: You have a go do it, they have an on-line store
A: So which one are we aiming at 
LM: Dorothy Perkins I think Oh that’s the magazine
A: Shall I go back?
LM: Yeah, go to browse on-line stores (24.5)
A: (...)
LM: Hit go I think
A: All these are (...)
LM: Yeah Maybe it’s like Diesel where it’s only a few things you can buy on-line at the moment It’s the first thing...
A: Deliver
LM: Oh look you could buy from the catalogue, so use that rather than phoning up or sending it, enter the number That’s quite interesting actually Order from catalogue, click find
A: OK, let me get the catalogue
LM: Yeah
A: Erm, see this is the one they showed us OK let’s see
LM: Give us a number
A: SB780
LM: OK, find item, (4.0) wow, this is it
A: Yeah, two-tone shirt... I put some music on
LM: OK, so it’s like, that’s interesting, those things weren’t up there originally only when you put in the number OK, we’ll get off the Net, and I’m running out of tape anyway So what about this, Dorothy Perkins?
A: I don’t mind that
LM: More so than the food stuff
A: Yeah, I mean you go to the shop and you might see better stuff, the appearance of things, I mean I would buy food, but only if I know I can’t get to the shop So what’s the address? How did you get it?
LM: I used a search engine and entered Dorothy Perkins, I’ll show you how I got there
A: (...)
LM: It’s all one word and the thing I use to erm find it was this, a search engine, search.co.uk it’s handy, all the British websites
A: Http 
LM: Http Search UK OK, you put that on then whatever you need
A: OK, let’s see if there’s erm Jane erm
LM: Jane Norman?
A: Yeah You have to put that there?
LM: Yeah, otherwise you’d get any website with Jane in the title and any website with Norman It’s quite a small shop Hrmm Oxford Street Co UK, look
A: C&A
LM: A Map that’s weird
A: About shops on Oxford Street
LM: No website for Jane Norman
A: So no On-line shopping
LM: Yeah That’s funny, that’s all they got, not much All right I’ll get off now, otherwise your bill will be massive
A: I’ve got a friend called Eudora
LM: Really?
A: Yeah
LM: I only ever heard it about e-mail So do you reckon it’ll take off then
A: Yeah, with the catalogue stuff, people might prefer to, that’s I don’t know, I’d prefer that
LM: Who do you think it’s aimed at? Any particular...
A: Not particularly, young people, sixteen would prefer to go shopping, this is boring to them, I guess people, married women, housewives, too busy, they might prefer it, it’s quicker to them And with the Tesco thing as well, write a list out and go on-line don’t have to go out, and the shopping’ll be in






 
Ut28

User trial 28, ABC1 single woman, High IT, 8th July 1999 **


[television background noise]
LM: Yeah it should be alright. As long as it records us. Right okay. Basically I wanted to show you some stuff on the Internet, some shopping sites
CA: Oh right
LM: And see what you think of them. But I just wanted first of all to know what sort of stuff you know about computers, do you use them at all?
CA: We use them, yeah um (.) we use a number of programs at work like Word (.) Excel, Office Power, don’t think you’d know about Office Power
LM: No
CA: Probably not. And we do a lot of emails via the Office Power
LM: Right okay
CA: And work (…) we use the computer, well we use the Internet if we’re getting other information from other local authorities
LM: Right, so do you work what C Council?
CA: C Council
LM: Where, is that the big building
CA: Yeah
LM: where they’ve got the cats
CA: yeah
LM: Right [laughs] And what do you do there?
CA Um environmental health
LM: Right okay
CA: Yeah, so we use that mainly for work
LM: Yeah
CA: And sometimes if I’m looking for other things I’ll look
LM: Right (.) So would you go on the Internet quite frequently for work stuff then?
CA: Not that often, because you know, there’s certain information that comes through to us, all local authorities, if we need to know about certain items that we’ve got to condemn
LM: Yeah
CA: It normally comes through that way. But um sometimes when you’re searching for information like in terms of air pollution you look through the computer
LM: Sure
CA: You know, Internet and stuff like that. Yeah, so sometimes it might not be daily, it might be weekly, but um quite, you know, I’m getting the hang of it because all of us now have access to the Internet, and we didn’t have that one year ago, you know?
LM: Yeah
CA: So, yeah, so
LM: What about the email thing? Do you
CA: Um, well the thing is we’ve all, we can all email, we can send people our emails
LM: Yeah
CA: We’re under ‘local government’ so we don’t really need to use Hotmail, although I’ve got a Hotmail account
LM: Uh huh
CA: So um it’s more convenient now really, because you don’t really have to (.) go through Hotmail to get an account now, so
LM: So your friends can mail you, at your work email?
CA: Yeah, yeah exactly
LM: Right, okay. And so how long have you been, have you just been using the Internet sort of since they’ve had it at work or had you kind of
CA: Yeah it’s just sort of eight months
LM: Mm
CA: They’ve had it now for eight months, so um. But prior to that I sort of got used to the Internet on my own, you know, of my own accord
LM: Mm
CA: Um so yeah, I’ve got a good understanding and knowledge of the Internet, my way around anyway
LM: Yeah, okay. So (.) what sort of stuff do you use it for outside of work kind of research? CA: Well, I was emailing people like my friends. Find out information like going away
LM: So travel and
CA: Yeah travel (.) you know, the weather in those countries, hotels, I booked a hotel via the Internet
LM: Mm
CA: Um (1.0) my friend was telling me about different sites on the Internet (1.5) Um I was looking up um homes on the Internet
LM: Mm
CA: Like homes, like holiday homes in another country, like Grenada
LM: Oh wow
CA: Um just different things really. You know, and other pages my friend was telling me about (.) I was trying to find but I could never find it, and like at uni I was using it at one point, just um finding out some research information
LM: How long ago was that?
CA: Um well not that long ago really, just a couple of months ago
LM: Right, yeah. And there was sort of free Internet access there?
CA: Yeah, yeah
LM: Yeah, that’s pretty good
CA: Yeah, so (2.0) I, I, you know, I’ve been, I think, over the past year or so I’ve been using it more frequent. I think also now as it’s work based I can sort of get to use it as well
LM: Yeah
CA: More regularly. Because obviously you have to pay for it if you’re, if you’re not, if you don’t get it free
LM: Yeah. You don’t have a computer at home? CA: No
(1.0)
LM: And would it be sort of the cost of being online
CA: No funnily enough. I want to get a computer but my friends keep on saying like, a friend of mine’s on there all the time and he’s like oh my god, you know, my telephone bill, this that and the other, so it kind of puts me off
LM: Yeah
CA: Because I think I’d like to be on there, I’d be surfing, I’d be going everywhere basically
LM: Yeah, yeah, once you know what you can do
CA: Yeah, exactly
LM: Yeah, I know what you mean. I don’t have one at home for like similar reasons really
CA: Exactly yeah, yeah. That’s right yeah
LM: Right okay. And um have you heard anything about like shopping on the Internet? Come across any shopping sites?
CA: Um not at all. I didn’t know they existed
LM: But you say like you’ve bought, what, booked hotels and stuff
CA: Yeah
LM: But you haven’t paid, sort of like typed in your card number and
CA: No just like got the information about hotel, like for example I went to Rimini a couple of weeks ago, so I sort of got the information off the Internet and just booked it, you know (…) London to Rimini and that’s how I did it
LM: Yeah
CA: So, I didn’t know there were sites on there
LM: Right, okay. Cause that’s what I sort of wanted to show you really was like some shopping sites (1.0). So you’ve not heard of any of like, what might you have heard of, like Tesco on the, Tesco Online, like having your groceries delivered
CA: Really? No I didn’t realise they had that, oh my god
LM: Oh right then, well I’m going to set it up and show you (…) Is there a phone connection in here, or is it out there?
CA: Um 
LM: I’ve got a phone extension if we need it
CA: Yeah it’s here
LM: Alright I’ll get my extension cord then. Okay that’s great
CA: Right have I got to take my phone off
LM: Is that alright?
CA: Yeah, that’s fine
LM: Okay, I’ll move this around so you can
(20.0)
LM: Okay great, now I can turn it back up again so (.) So what browser is it you use at work, is it Explorer or Netscape?
CA: Yeah both. Explorer most times
LM: Yeah cause I’m not, I think this is Explorer but I’m not very familiar with it. Right so we’ve got favourites somewhere. There you go, right, these are some sort of shopping sites that I’ve lined up that we can have a look at
CA: Oh right
LM: Um I’ll just tell you a bit about some of them. Amazon is um a big bookstore based in the States
CA: Oh right
LM: Only exists sort of online, it’s not like a real, you know, it’s not like an American shop it’s like a virtual store. Um CDNow is like (.) the biggest, sort of equivalent, but for CDs and videos, it’s also quite a good site. Diesel, I don’t know if Diesel’s British, but you can certainly buy stuff
CA: Really? All of them you can buy stuff? LM: Not all of the ones I’ve got listed here, I’m just trying to think which, cause I had um, Diesel you can buy like a limited range, like some of their jeans and some of their T-shirts
CA: Yeah
LM: Um HMV I don’t think you can buy anything there yet. JD Sports I think you might be able to. Magpie Records is a music store. Marks and Spencer’s I don’t think you can, you can buy a few things like
CA: Right
LM: bits and pieces, but you can sort of find out about products. Sainsbury’s I think we can have a look at. Um the Body Shop. Top Shop I think you can buy from. And then I’ll try and think of a few more though, cause I think there’s quite a few
CA: Right
LM: But if you want to, I mean, what do you fancy trying?
CA: Um oh god, Marks and Spencer’s, I like Marks
LM: Okay go for it, if you just scroll down on that it should
CA: Okay so I’m doing (.) ah right okay, so is that, um, what’ve I done?
LM: It’s um (.) it’s sort of normal right and left like a normal mouse
CA: Okay
LM: But if you just hit return on that probably
CA: Right. So where’s your ‘Return’ key on that, is it up here?
LM: Yeah
CA: Right (2.0) So say for example you was in, um, oh god (2.5) how would I actually access this information?
(2.0)
LM: What do you mean?
CA: How would I actually get to these pages? (1.5) Oh right, okay. But if I didn’t know that Marks and Spencer’s had this um web page, how would I get there?
LM: Well normally I’d say, it would depend if you knew that they had a website but you didn’t know the name
CA: Right
LM: I suppose you’d go to a search engine or, like do you ever use like Yahoo! or
CA: Yeah
LM: Lycos or whatever, Alta Vista to do searches?
CA: Yeah
LM: Yeah, I mean I’d just go there and type in the name of the kind of shop, say, that you’re in, I mean we can do that if you can think of shops that you regularly shop in, and we can see if they’re on the Net
CA: Yeah, alright, okay. Is (.) obviously you’re mouse is here isn’t it?
LM: Yeah so you use this basically is like
CA: Okay (…) yeah
LM: to move around, and then that’s like left and right click
CA: Yeah okay, that’s good. Er, so these are the things, these are the indexes basically, yeah?
LM: Mm hm
CA: Um what do I like? Er food and wine, okay. Um do you have to put ‘open link’ or?
LM: No, it should just go straight to it, I don’t know what happened there
CA: Oh right, okay
(10.0)
CA: Hm
(3.0)
LM: Use the right click (.) one, the other one
CA: This one?
LM: The other one
(5.0)
CA: Oh my gosh
LM: Ooh [laughs] fat free icecream sounds like quite a good invention
CA: Hm, ‘click on a tub and find out more’ (.) Hm (1.0) okay. Is there any more to this?
LM: Mm, they look great
CA: (…)
LM: Use the other one
CA: Okay
LM: That’s it
CA: Oh, so basically you can find out more about the product, just apart from buying it
LM: Ye::ah I mean Marks and Spencer’s is an interesting one, cause you can’t, I don’t think there’s much you can buy, but if you go to ‘gifts’ or whatever it was
CA: Right
LM: I think you can buy stuff there, whereas the rest of it I think is just information
CA: Yeah, okay
LM: about the shop
CA: Where are we?
LM: Cause that’s not showing you very much is it
CA: Um, gift service. Email cards, oh, yeah my friend was telling me about cards you can, um, you can select and send to people, I think that’s free of charge, I don’t know what website that was from
LM: Mm (1.0) So like little picture cards and things
CA: Yeah, yeah
LM: Yeah I think someone sent one, like ages ago a friend of mine sent one on Valentine’s Day or something
CA: Yeah
LM: and it sort of came up with a picture of some flowers
CA: Yeah, yeah. I think that’s a really nice idea
LM: Yeah
CA: (…) choose a message (4.0) I would have wanted to see what kind of (2.5) would want to see what they (.) maybe I should go back
LM: Try ‘flowers’ maybe, or ‘direct’
(5.0)
LM: Oh that looks a bit more like it
CA: Mm (4.0) ‘Marks and Spencer’s (…) can shop from the comfort of your own home’
LM: Hm, that looks like a phone thing though, doesn’t it
CA: Hm
LM: Mm
(4.0)
CA: ‘Update me about…’ ah (.) There’s not much here (.) maybe there’s another
LM: Why don’t we try another site actually, cause Marks isn’t looking very good [laughs] on like the kind of Internet shopping thing
CA: Yeah okay
LM: If you go to where the little heart is
CA: Mm
LM: That’s it. If we try ‘CDNow’ (2.0) 
CA: Mm, is that further down?
LM: It’s up
(4.0)
LM: Yeah that’s it (4.0) I know you can buy things online here [laughs]
CA: Oh right (…) have you come to this site before [laughs]?
LM: I’ve used this one quite a lot, yeah [laughs]
CA: Hm, okay
(5.0)
LM: So as you see, if you scroll up and down you’ve got like a front page with sort of, you know, these like adverts and promotions for different
CA: Is it the other one? This one? (1.5) Oh right, okay. ‘Today’s Pick’ (3.0) Gift vouchers? Would they be redeemed anywhere? That’s quite unusual, I’ve never heard of this one before
LM: Hm, I don’t know
CA: Right okay, let’s go back up
LM: Or you can, if you’re looking for something you can
CA: Yeah
LM: search the site, use the search facility at the top (.) or there’s, you know
CA: (…) gospel (.) let’s try this one (8.0) Are these new page sites? Or have they been around for a while?
LM: This website? CA: Yeah
LM: This website’s been around for quite a while actually
CA: Right, okay
LM: I would say at least a year
CA: Hm (2.0) right (1.5) Oh you can, oh alright, you can select the artist
LM: Yeah, the search thing at the top, you can sort of search by
CA: Yeah
LM: search by artist or
CA: Oh right, okay
LM: or title, or whatever
(2.0)
CA: Oh right, so it says ‘shopping cart’ at the top
LM: Mm hm
CA: Would that indicate, say for example if we make a selection
LM: Yeah, I mean we can do that, we can like sort of make up a fake order and
CA: Yeah
LM: and I’ll show you how it works out
CA: Oh right (1.0) okay I want to see that Missy Elliott one, so okay, I can search on this can’t I? LM: Okay I’ll just show you, if you click on ‘Missy Elliott’ it’ll give you a list of like her releases, if you click on the album it will show you the album cover and the album listing and so on
CA: Oh right, okay, yeah
(3.0)
LM: I was just looking at it in Tower Records on the way up actually [laughs] it was fourteen pounds there
CA: Oh really? Is it, how much is it, I didn’t (.) Twelve ninety-nine? 
LM: But that’s dollars
(.)
CA: Oh right, so they convert it then?
LM: Yeah
CA: Okay
LM: Now if you click on, that little sound symbol says that we can listen to a
CA: Really?
LM: An extract, hopefully. It will only be a little one, but
(7.0)
LM: And then if you scroll down a bit more
(5.0)
CA: Oh right, so you can hear whatever track?
LM: The ones that are underlined
CA: Ah
LM: should give us, I mean they’ll only be like little
CA: Alright, let’s see if this one
(2.0)
LM: So that should sort of initiate like Real Player, which is a bit of software (1.0) Let’s see if we’ve got the volume up enough
[music]
CA: Mm, oh
LM: It might sound a bit better if you had like stereo speakers on your computer
CA: Mm, yeah
LM: Which I don’t have for this one, but
CA: Oh excellent, okay, so um (1.5) what else? Okay, so
LM: Yeah, so if you get rid of that little window there, at the top (3.0)
CA: Oh, what’ve I done?
LM: Oh that’s just an advert, so just click on the little cross, that will get rid of it
(3.0)
LM: Okay, so we could add that to the cart
CA: So this one?
LM: Yeah
CA: Okay (2.0) So cart indicates that we’ve made a purchase? What does that mean? (…)
LM: Now I’m just wondering, cause I’ve got an account, like a sort of profile, so maybe I’ll log onto that
CA: Yeah
LM: so you can see what else it can do
(2.0)
LM: Yeah, here you go I can log in. If I’m not careful it’s going to buy it for me, cause it’s got all my details already. Right, so if I scroll down we can see that it’s got my address already
CA: Yeah, yeah
LM: So it knows where it’s going to go. If I go to ‘My CDNow’ I can show you what (.) it knows about me
CA: Is it free to actually um (1.0) get on?
LM: Mm, yeah, I mean if you’ve got Internet access then
CA: Yeah
LM: you don’t need to pay to use the site
CA: Oh right, okay. Mm
LM: But obviously one of the things about the Internet is that it can store quite a lot of information
CA: Yeah
LM: So every time you log on, you know, it can track that you’ve been using a site
CA: Yeah, yeah
LM: So it’s sort of an extension of that (.). So if you go on like ‘Wish List’…
CA: Mm hm. Here?
LM: No, where it actually says ‘wish list’, I think that’s the one, yeah
CA: Ah
LM: Click on that, that should give you a list of all the things that I’ve like, when I’ve been surfing and I’ve thought oh I must get that sometime
CA: Oh right, yeah, yeah
LM: Kind of thing. And if you scroll down then it’s sort of got all that
CA: That’s interesting, isn’t it?
LM: It’s a good way of er
CA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, okay
LM: And so on
CA: Yeah
LM: And then what you can do with these is if I decide that I want to buy a few of them
CA: Right okay
LM: I can then put, I can click on ‘add to cart’, or you know, if I bought it in Tower Records I can delete it
CA: Right, yeah
LM: Or they’ve even got this thing like, say if it’s like my birthday and I said ‘buy me something from CDNow’ [laughs] I could put up like a list
CA: Oh right, oh really? Oh okay
LM: but you see what I mean, it’s got all those kinds of little things you can do
CA: Yeah, yeah. Oh I see, it’s interesting. So it’s a bit like (1.0) it’s like, not to forget, make sure I don’t forget. This isn’t, this is something that I want to buy at some point
LM: Yeah
CA: Oh right
LM: Yeah, it’s like you can surf away for hours, and you’re not like, oh what was that thing I was looking at
CA: Yeah, yeah
LM: the other day. It’s like, you know
CA: So really what we’ve done, all we’ve done is actually put that on your list of one to buy
LM: Well no cause, no that, I think that was on there already
CA: Oh alright
LM: I think I had actually put that there [laughs]
CA: Yeah, yeah
LM: I think we just put that straight in the shopping cart, so if we go in and, so at any point (.) I think that little picture stays in the corner of your screen, so no matter what you’re doing and what you’re looking at (.) you can kind of just go back and it should come up with the information. But in the mean time, you know, we can go and look at something else if you want to 
CA: Yeah
LM: Um, we could like
CA: Yeah, um (.) yeah can we actually shop for food? I like food…
LM: Yeah alright. Um, now it’s a bit tricky because um, well it’s not that tricky, but um Tesco’s have been running a food shopping service for a while, but how that works is that they send you like a little CD and you stick it in your computer and load it up, and it’s like a list of all their current prices for all their ranges
CA: Okay, yeah
LM: But we haven’t got that installed on this machine, we had it installed on another machine and that got stolen [laughs] and we haven’t installed it yet. Um, but we can go and look at their website, and I think that Sainsbury’s will give you a, oh, did I miss Sainsbury’s?
CA: Yeah
LM: Here we go, I think Sainsbury’s you can do like a little demo
CA: Right
(3.0)
CA: But obviously it sounds like Tesco’s have done and been around for a bit longer
LM: Mm hm
CA: Right okay
LM: But I mean, as you know probably, like there’s quite a lot of competition between all the major
CA: Of course
LM: supermarkets for customers
CA: Of course, of course yeah
LM: So, you know, they’re all trying to get in on it
CA: (…) services. Hm, oh right, can you actually use your reward card on this? Maybe you can
LM: Oh yeah, I think you can 
CA: It’s a good idea
LM: Oh so you can click down on any of those (3.0) Oh they’ve got a shop in Calais, amazing…
CA: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Can we have a look
LM: Oh yeah, let’s [laughs]. Actually I think I read something about that the other day, saying that with Duty Free going, saying that Sainsbury’s in Calais was dead cheap
CA: Oh right (…) Oh gosh
(7.0)
CA: (…) (5.0) Okay (8.0) See these are a, no it wouldn’t be possible, would it really?
LM: What’s that? CA: Buying stuff from there
LM: Well I mean
[computer bleeps]
CA: Oh gosh
LM: Ah, is it alright to plug it in? It’s got no battery power left
CA: Yeah, yeah
LM: Right, it should be fine
CA: Do you want a packet of crisps?
LM: Yeah, I wouldn’t say no actually [laughs] Thanks
CA: Hm, what was I doing? Having a look here (5.0) It would be interesting if you could buy certain things from here. But I don’t think that’s possible. ‘I want…’ what
LM: If you use the little arrow, see what it’s got listed
CA: Oh, Stena line
LM: Oh, so these are links to other sites
CA: Yeah. Okay. ‘Food Ideas’, ‘Food Labelling’, ‘ Fresh In Store’, ‘Home Shopping’ yes
LM: Yeah if we try that it might show us what, give us like a demo of what the food shopping stuff looks like
CA: ‘Food Ideas’, ‘Services’, ‘Information’, ‘Shop Now’, ‘Home Shopping’. Hm, shall I just press on that or what? LM: Yeah, let’s try information and see what it says about their Internet shopping arrangments
CA: (…) ‘All you need to know about how Orderline (…)’ 
LM: Oh yeah, let’s type your postcode in and see if you can do it
CA: Just go down a bit and, where do you put it, in here yeah?
LM: Mm
CA: Um (.)
LM: If you click on it, yeah
CA: So North West one (.) so I just put North West one nine E G
LM: Probably alright with NW1 I’d have thought
CA: Do you reckon? LM: Mm
(6.0)
CA: That would be really good if it was
LM: I was going to say with the one around the corner it’s pretty good but
CA: Yeah
LM: Well let’s have a look
CA: (…)
LM: Oh, what happened there? (…) maybe you do need to put the whole one in
(14.0)
CA: I wonder if there’s a charge though for this service
(2.0)
LM: I don’t know, the Tesco one (.) um, oh ‘user postcode invalid’, the Tesco one was like a five pound delivery charge
CA: Ah right
LM: But it wasn’t a charge to actually sort of set it up, if you know what I mean
CA: Yeah, yeah
(3.0)
LM: Oh I’ll try that again (10.0) Oh, what’s happened?
(8.0)
CA: Hm
LM: What’s going on? Right (7.0) Hm. Okay, let’s try another site, see if it’s (1.0) a problem with the um (3.0) I’m just trying to work out if it’s a problem with the Sainsbury’s site, or if it’s a
CA: Yeah
LM: My Internet connection (3.0) Hm, looks like it might be my Internet connection. Right let’s exit and see what happens (1.0) and I’ll try it again (2.0) Right, let’s try it again. Right, okay
CA: It’s that um (13.0). It’s not normally this busy at this time is it? 
LM: I wouldn’t have thought so
CA: Not that busy
(6.0)
LM: Hm, looks alright, doesn’t it? (1.0) Now. Right, let’s try it again (13.0) Hm, I’m determined to show you how this works. Right, what was it NW1?
CA: Yeah, 9EG. ‘Out of range’ 
LM: What does that mean? Oh well let’s try taking (1.5) a tour (2.0). Here, this is what like, I guess if you’re like a regular shopper you can
CA: Mm
LM:  what it starts off like. But we can do just a tour version
CA: Hm
LM: Where’s this tour then? CA: [laughs]
LM: [sighs] Great. This is a bit frustrating
CA: It’s just not
LM: I don’t know, just that bit just shut down then
CA: Hm (3.0) How popular is home food shopping, though?
LM: Well basically Tesco started off trialling it in certain bits of London, like I think in West London and North West London, but not in NW1, cause I used to live in NW1 actually and Tesco’s weren’t serving NW1 even then (2.0) um so I mean I think it’s taken off fairly well
CA: Yeah
LM: Like I think Tesco’s have got plans to build big sort of (.) shops that aren’t real shops, do you know what I mean, like just warehouses
CA: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
LM: Inside the M25 so they can deliver to people in London
CA: Oh right
LM: And I think it’s doing alright in London, cause a lot of people don’t have cars and like, just can’t be bothered like getting home on the bus with like loads of shopping
CA: Exactly
LM: And don’t mind paying five pounds for someone to deliver it. But they haven’t really tried it outside London, and it’s not clear how well it would work in areas where you drive to a big store because it’s not that much of a hassle
CA: Oh right
LM: But yeah, I think it’s quite popular
CA: Oh, it seems like we’re okay now
LM: [laughs] I don’t know whether to risk trying to that thing again
CA: [laughs]
LM: It might shut it down (.) Right, let’s give it one more try. If not, I’m going to have to just make do with the rest of the site (.) Now (2.0)
CA: It’s even got information on GM foods there, that’s quite good
LM: Hm (…)
CA: Mm. God the lists must be endless as to what you can buy, though, in terms of like if you start, if you’re in Sainsbury’s and there’s different aisles, do you get what I mean?
LM: Yeah, yeah, yeah
CA: You know with all the brands
LM: Yeah I think so. It’s very, it’s a bit boring at the moment, cause it’s very list-based, you know
CA: Mm
LM: It’s just like you click on
CA: Yeah
LM:  ‘fruit’ and it lists all the different kinds of fruit and you click on ‘apples’ and it lists all the different kinds of apples
CA: Yeah
LM: You know, and you can imagine like some products, the list just goes on forever, it’s like, you could be very specific
CA: Exactly, yeah
(7.0)
LM: I don’t know if we just need to leave this to load a bit or something
CA: (…) we’re too frightened to use you at the moment dear
LM: [laughs]
CA: Gosh
LM: I’m too frightened to close it in case it disconnects my whole (4.0) Now what? What is that? [laughs] Why’ve I got a blank screen? That’s no good (9.0) Oh. Right, okay, we’ll just have to find another site quickly
CA: What about the Tesco one?
LM: Yes try the Tesco one
CA: See what Tesco’s have got
LM: Yeah have a go with this one [laughs]
CA: What about um Waitrose?
LM: Mm
CA: Have Waitrose got a site? LM: They’ve got a website, but they don’t do online shopping
CA: Oh right, okay. Whereas at least you know, you can see what products they have there
LM: This is what I wanted to do, I wanted to show you what it’s like. Because I mean they’re not all that different, but (2.0) CA: Yeah try ‘Tesco Direct’ (2.0) It would be quite interesting if they had um (.) I think a website, before you actually get… No, I’m thinking that it would be nice if people can go online and order food and pop out without having to go in and buy the food. Do you get what I mean? Have computers there (2.0) near the store
LM: Right okay
CA: Or actually in the store, cause some people don’t want to shop, they just want to order their food
LM: Just collect it, like a sort of Drive Thru kind of thing?
CA: Yeah exactly
LM: I know what you mean
CA: Right what’s (.) oh. ‘Existing customers only’, ‘New Customers (…)’
LM: Try ‘Take A Look’ yeah or we can do that
CA: Do you think so, yeah? LM: Well try it, it can’t be any worse than the last one, can it? [laughs]
CA: Right okay ‘Join Us’ yeah
LM: Let’s go back [laughs] go back a page
CA: Right okay
LM: Let’s try ‘Take A Look’
CA: (…) so we can’t look then? LM: Hm, no, I think it means you can’t shop
CA: Oh right, let’s have a look, what’s down there? (3.0) ‘Start Browsing’
(16.0)
CA: I suppose because they’re the leading supermarket that’s why they would be so up-to-date really, I would say
LM: Mm hm
CA: But I’d expect that from Sainsbury’s, I really would, for some reason
LM: Expect them to be more sort of
CA: Yeah because they’re bigger stores
LM: Yeah
(1.5)
CA: Oh (1.0) oh my gosh
LM: Oh good this looks like, oh no I’m not even going to say it
CA: [laughs] you did say it. Oh right so, okay let me see what
LM: So those are your sections, you know
CA: Right
LM: Yeah, and just (.) fire away
CA: (…) this is interesting, gosh. ‘Select Aisle’ (3.0) Oh right (…)
LM: Yeah if you click on that arrow, see what they’ve got
CA: This one, ‘Ready Meals’?
LM: No, the other one
CA: This one? LM: Yeah
CA: ‘Select Aisle’?
LM: I think it, I don’t know what it’s going to give you a choice of, but
CA: Alright (.) okay
LM: Oh
CA: Alright
(10.0)
LM: I think you’ll have to go down that list now and choose something that you want
CA: Oh cooked meats, I would say (6.0) Oh that’s true, god, you have to think about all those things when you’re on, when you’re shopping
LM: Oh here you go, and you finally get to like a list of hams [laughs]
CA: God [laughs] oh my gosh. Right I’m interested in this one, let’s have a look
(9.0)
LM: I mean, what you’d normally be able to do, if this were like kind of real
CA: Yeah
LM: You’d be able to click on it, and it would add it to your shopping basket
CA: Oh right, okay
LM: And you could decide if you wanted, however much you wanted
CA: Yeah, yeah
LM: Or, you know
CA: Cause at the moment we’re just looking, aren’t we? We’re just looking
LM: Yeah, but yeah, what you’d be able to do would be just click on it and add it to your basket and then go and shop for something else. But you can’t obviously because…
CA: Alright (gosh). ‘Price’, so is that per kilo or what?
LM: I don’t know, it usually says, but it doesn’t here for some reason. I mean, you might not know (…)
CA: Gosh (…) ‘garlic sausage’ (2.0) Oh so you’d add, I suppose it’s just like (.) shopping in the supermarket anyway, add however many you want
LM: Mm hm
CA: And then it totals it, and then I suppose you pay. I wonder if you’d be able to pay by cash
LM: I don’t think so, think that’s (…)
CA: Oh right, okay. But then not everyone could I suppose shop then
LM: No. It has to be a credit card or a debit card
CA: Oh right
LM: So yeah I mean, that’s one issue that lots of people don’t like to
CA: Yeah exactly (2.0) I wonder if there would be, oh I don’t know… How soon would they deliver? The next day?
LM: Yeah, I mean if you, I think it’s one of those things where if you ordered it before
CA: Right
LM: Sort of ten in the morning you might be able to get it that evening
CA: Yeah
LM: Um (1.0) I mean it would usually be the next day, and they give you like a two hour slot when
CA: Right
LM: you agree that you know, I’ll be in between six and eight
CA: Yeah
LM: And you can deliver it any time then
(2.0)
CA: (…)
(2.0)
CA: If I click on here I can make another selection can’t I? Fruit and veg, now that would be quite interesting to see
LM: Mm hm
CA: And they don’t actually show you the products as well?
LM: No it doesn’t, there’s no pictures for some reason
CA: Hm (1.5) okay. Let’s have a look
LM: I mean yeah would you have a (1.5) Would that be a bit of problem, do you reckon?
(2.0)
CA: Hm, well sometimes you like to see the items in question
LM: Mm hm
CA: And sometimes some (2.0) there’s certain items you like but you (.) you don’t know the name
LM: Hm
CA: So ideally you’d probably want to see them. Some have more sweetness than others, you know? Like when you go in Sainsbury’s (.) you know they categorise their sweetness so, you know, like fruits you might think oh right, okay, I’d like Granny Smith’s but, you know, they’re a bit tart and I might want 
LM: Hm
CA: You know so I think that sometimes makes a difference
LM: Yeah and I don’t think it necessarily tells you stuff like that here
CA: Yeah
LM: It’s not got that much information
CA: Oh right, okay. I’ll buy apples (3.0) (…) yeah this is really good actually, very good (2.0) cause people nowadays are really busy, people don’t necessarily want to go and shop after work, you know? So
LM: Yeah
(.)
CA: Oh, what’s that? One loose, oh right (…) see I don’t even know what Pink Lady apples are. What’s this? (1.5) (…) tray, pack. Maybe I’m thinking that’s a pack of four (…) 
(6.0)
LM: There, you can
(8.0)
CA: Mm
(17.0)
[laughs]
LM: ‘Dogs’, ‘Cats’, ‘Other’ [laughs]
CA: [laughs]
LM: Like tortoise food or
CA: Yeah
LM: Fish food
CA: Let’s have a look yeah
LM: [laughs]
CA: What kind of animals? Some kind of human types of animals, yeah [laughs]
LM: [laughs] (…) Oh birds, okay (…) that’s so funny
CA: ‘Domestic birds’, ‘Wild…’. Let’s have a look at the wild
LM: Oh look, little pictures of bones [laughs]
CA: [laughs] And it really does actually look very realistic
LM: [laughs]
CA: [laughs] It really does look like dog, doggy bones, my god
LM: I had no idea you could buy, like, bird food in Tesco’s
CA: Amazing innit and (…) let’s have a look
LM: ‘Small Animal Products’? The mind boggles
CA: [laughs]
LM: [laughs]
CA: Oh gosh, oh
LM: Oh no way (…) ‘Harry Hamster food, peanuts and sunflower seeds’
CA: [laughs] ‘Supreme crackers’, ‘cereal’. You’d think that, you know, it was probably for animal, it was probably human foods
LM: (…) does it?
CA: Human food, human food. Oh god, ‘fish products’ let’s have a look at this one
LM: ‘Vegetable and Herb’ it sounds like (.) the sort of thing
CA: [laughs]
LM: you might have for dinner
CA: [laughs] Exactly
LM: [laughs]
(2.0)
CA: Right okay. That’s interesting. Ah:: I mean, it’s even got things like (1.5) you know, I’m not even thinking of (.)
LM: Yeah
CA: purchasing. Maybe that’s a good thing really. I suppose if you get on this, you’re more likely to look under ‘everything’. Plants (.) It’s weird because in reality you don’t see it as a shop, you see it as a computer and you see it as (.) just having limited information and not all information that you want
LM: Yeah
CA: It’s really weird
LM: I mean, what sort of, doing this, how does it feel different from shopping, I mean apart from the obvious, but sort of
CA: It takes longer
LM: Yeah
CA: I must admit it does
LM: Hm
CA: And I don’t know, unless you really know what you’re looking for, you’ve written it down, you might forget something
LM: Mm hm
CA: You know? Whereas if you go in Sainsbury’s you’re probably more likely to buy something more - or Tesco’s, wherever you shop - because you can visually see the things, and maybe there’s things that appeal to you at the time of, you know, shopping
LM: Hm
CA: I suppose the same can apply here, but (.) I just think getting round (.) it takes a bit longer, you know? LM: Yeah
CA: It’s time and maybe people want to (1.5) limit their time really. And this is what is meant to cut your shopping time, so I don’t know (…) (2.0) Gosh (1.0) Gives you a lot of variety, though. As I said you know certain things you need to (.) have actually tried and know like these wines, I might not know (.) American wine is, you know?
LM: Yeah
CA: So
LM: And normally maybe you’d look on the back of the bottle or
CA: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Mm. Or African, let’s try that one (4.0) Hm (2.0)
LM: Wow, South Africa makes a lot of wine
CA: I didn’t think so though
LM: I guess it’s got the weather for it
CA: It says ‘you cannot order’. Thanks for reminding me
LM: [laughs] Ye::s
CA: [laughs] Oh my gosh (1.0) Do you use this at all?
LM: Well no, I haven’t, cause what I used to, like I say I used to live in NW1 and I couldn’t, I knew
CA: Oh right
LM: they wouldn’t deliver to my area. I haven’t actually tried it since I’ve moved (1.5) and I should do cause I’ve only got a Tesco Metro and it’s sort of a bit, you know
CA: Yeah, yeah
LM: (…) choice, really. It’s a bit of a pain to get to anything else
(4.0)
CA: Hm (.) hm (3.0) It’s brilliant, it’s just (2.0) brilliant (2.0)
LM: So how, I mean say, say that Sainsbury’s or wherever the nearest Tesco’s is delivered here I mean, how can you imagine yourself using it? (1.5) Thinking about, you know, your current use of computers like at work, using the Internet at work
CA: Yeah
LM: What kinds of things you maybe (1.5) what you could imagine yourself doing with it
CA: Mm (1.5) See I’ve got, I must admit, I shop (.) anyway
LM: Hm
CA: But (1.5) for certain things, like for example music, I like music and books
LM: Mm
CA: Maybe I would (.) use it for that, for that purpose (.) especially if you know what you’re looking for
LM: Mm
CA: And I like, I don’t know I think (.) also you can go through recommendation, so I suppose if I’ve got a good recommendation. Sometimes you can get sidetracked when you go into a bookstore, and sometimes you get sidetracked when you go into music stores, so (.) um (.) it would be quite useful for that, that purpose (2.0) Um (.) maybe in, ordering things that you can’t really get, that are not published anymore
LM: Yeah, I mean like a lot of them have, I’m not sure if Amazon does, but a lot of (.) book stores on the Net, I know Waterstones had one on the Internet where it would search for um out of print books
CA: Yeah
LM: And it couldn’t get back to you straight away
CA: Yeah
LM: But I remember like keying in all the details and saying I’ll be prepared to spend like, twenty quid to get hold of a copy of this
CA: Yeah
LM: And it will send one to you (…)
CA: Brilliant
LM: But with regards to the food shopping, you’d just think (1.0) er, a bit sort of cumbersome maybe, or
CA: Um no, I do like, I think it’s quite a good idea but you know I think um (2.0) I don’t know, maybe people who don’t really like shopping would use this (.)
LM: Hm
CA: You know, not really keen on the crowds, the tills, you know
LM: So what’s
CA: the whole (…)
LM: So what’s, sort of, shopping about for you (.) would you say
CA: I really enjoy shopping
LM: like what is it you like most about shopping?
CA: I really like shopping, I like to see:: um (1.0) different things, I like to see things that I’m not even really interested in buying. I like to see the choices that you have
LM: Yeah
CA: Um and visually I like to see it, you know? And maybe that’s why I’m thinking oh it’s time consuming, but (.) um (1.5) I like that, I think (2.0) you actually walk out with your shopping, I think that’s what it is. But, you know, maybe there will be a time where I won’t want to go and shop, and I suppose I’ll get on the Internet and use, use home shopping but
LM: But what sort of shopping do you like most? Do you like some shopping more than others, like some sort of things or some places
CA: Um
LM: Like some places that are more of less sort of nice to shop in?
CA: Um I haven’t got a problem with shopping. I haven’t got a problem with clothes shopping, I haven’t got a problem with shopping (.) full stop
LM: You just pretty much like shopping [laughs]
CA: yep I like shopping, I do, I do like shopping, I find it kind of relaxing, whereas people think the opp, you know, the opposite really. Um (2.0) so yeah I just, I don’t really mind cause I think there’s a purpose to it really, whereas some people think it’s more of an effort, a hassle, inconvenience, and I don’t see it that way. Especially if I need something, I’m more likely going to shop, so (2.0)
LM: Okay (.) well can I just quickly show you one other which is the bookstore actually. Um, I was sort of wanting to ask you a few other things about this (.) as well
(3.0)
CA: Is Amazon the one that you can send (.) cards to people?
LM: I don’t think so
CA: No
LM: I can’t think what the name of that, I think there’s a few places like that
CA: Yeah. O:h
LM: Well have a look around this site and
CA: Mm (5.0) ‘your website’
LM: Again you can do this sort of search thing, like you could do on the CD site
CA: Okay. I’ll have a look here (…) gifts (…) see what they look like. Mm hm (5.0) Hm
LM: [coughs]
(3.0)
LM: Yeah let’s order a gift certificate and see what it, how it shows up, so I can show you what an order form looks like. Obviously we don’t um actually have to actually
CA: Um ‘order a gift certificate’
LM: Yeah let’s have a look at a sample one over there maybe (.) Oh so it’s
CA: It’s just the text, isn’t it
LM: Yeah
CA: Oh I don’t think this is (…) oh 
(4.0)
CA: Oh right, so that’s it
(3.0)
LM: Let’s have a look at one of the books, see what information it gives us
CA: Um let’s have a look. How about history 
(14.0)
LM: Hm, if you scroll down it sometimes gives you like a little review or some information about, oh no, about some other books like that
CA: Okay (.) oh right so, let me just go back up and have a look (1.0) so this is the book that I’m interested in, and then it just tells you, you go down (2.0) and so ‘browse (…)’. ‘I have read this book and I want to review it’ (2.0)
LM: So like some books, really popular ones, you can find like twenty reviews
CA: Yeah
LM: From other people
CA: Oh right okay. Right let’s have a look. Hm (.) that’s very good. Okay (4.0) So (5.0) So if I wanted to buy this one, that’s kind of interesting (…)
LM: Um ‘add to shopping basket’ (.) here
(2.0)
CA: ‘You can always remove it’. Oh right, okay
LM: And then once you’ve ordered it, you put it in your shopping basket, you can either go to the ‘checkout’ and pay for it and you know complete your order, or you can go back and look at other stuff, or just leave things in your shopping basket
CA: Yeah, yeah, yeah (.) okay
(12.0)
LM: Oh right so it gives you a list of books that are (…) that’s interesting
CA: Mm mm
LM: Oh wow
CA: Mm (…) years, oh my gosh (.) ‘The Bounty’ oh yeah, okay
LM: ‘Omeros’
CA: ‘The Odyssey’ (…) have a look at poems (…) Mm (2.0)
LM: (…)
CA: Hm (.) Oh right
LM: This mouse is kind of annoying to get used to, isn’t it
CA: [laughs] Very much so [laughs]
LM: [laughs] but it’s only like (…)
CA: I mean is it yours? Or is it
LM: Well it’s work’s, I mean it’s what we use to like
CA: Yeah, yeah
LM: Go and show people
CA: Okay. Oh right
LM: I don’t use it for work, I’ve got a normal one
CA: It’s good this, very good, I like that (1.0) Maybe that, I don’t know (1.5) maybe that’s what (…) to give a basic description of what the products are
LM: Yeah, a bit more
CA: Yeah, yeah. People are into that
LM: Yeah and that’s what the Internet’s good at. I like the CD one actually, because you can find out, say, everything that whatever, Missy Elliott’s ever done or
CA: Yeah exactly, yeah, yeah, yeah
(2.0)
LM: Alright, so it doesn’t tell you anything about him. Having said that you can save quite a lot of money on this, but anyway. Okay well maybe we should get off the Internet, we’ve been on quite a while now. Unless there was anything else you want to have a look for?
CA: Can we see (…) I just want to see what other pages you’ve got on there
LM: Yeah sure, go for it
CA: Okay, so I can go back or
LM: Yeah
(7.0)
CA: Diesel (1.5) I’d like to see what Diesel’s got to offer actually
LM: Sure. Clothes is an interesting one, cause a lot of people aren’t into the idea of buying that on the Net
CA: We could have just searched it, could we have?
LM: If we go to the heart that should have the Diesel one (.) set up on it (2.0) If there’s other clothes shops you like we could search for them
CA: Yeah (1.0) Wait a minute, so how come it hasn’t come up?
LM: (…)
CA: Oh I, oh
LM: Ah
CA: Let’s try again
LM: Right, I think we want ‘standard version’ probably, because I don’t think I’ve got Shockwave on there
CA: Hm
LM: (…) [laughs]
CA: [laughs] What the hell is that? (3.0) Hm (2.0) So basically the (.) the retail prices are completely different, so they’re reduced basically?
LM: Ye::ah for a lot of things, certainly like CDs and books
CA: Yeah
LM: Because I suppose the saving, and also both of the sites we looked at for CDs and books were ones that don’t have real-world shops
CA: Oh
LM: So they don’t have to factor in the price of (.) maintaining a shop on Oxford Street into the price of the book
CA: Right
LM: So like Amazon.co.uk is like a warehouse probably in Norfolk or somewhere
CA: Yeah
LM: With like a bunch of computers in it
CA: Yeah
LM: And book
CA: Oh right
LM: So that’s how they can afford to make the savings. I’m not sure if you could say the same for Diesel because (.) partly because (.) it wouldn’t necessarily be in their interests to cut their profits that much
CA: Mm
LM: But maybe they couldn’t afford to if they have to maintain shops you know in central London
CA: Yeah right
LM: Do you know what I mean? So a lot of the savings on the Internet I think come from the fact that you can sell things without having to have a retail outlet
CA: That’s right yeah
LM: and staff, and overheads
CA: Yeah, yeah, yeah
LM: and all that
CA: yeah, okay. Oh that’s interesting, so you can (2.0) I was looking at ‘the changing room’ but obviously they haven’t got facilities there
LM: Oh is that men’s underwear
CA: [laughs] we’re going to get nothing done now [laughs]
LM: (…)
CA: Oh okay, so it tells you what colours
LM: Oh you could buy presents
CA: Exactly. Mm, brilliant
LM: (…) a lot
CA: A lot for boxers (4.0) jeans (8.0) Sixty, it says sixty four ninety nine, my god
LM: That sounds about right for their jeans, they’re quite expensive
CA: Gosh, stone me
LM: What do you think of the sort of visuals, you know, the pictures and stuff?
CA: Um (2.0) yeah it’s quite clear. I mean, I don’t know, maybe it’s just the computer but it seems pretty clear. I mean where they’re focusing on I suppose those are the parts people are really interested in, in terms of fit and stuff (2.0) (…) right okay. I think I’m done with this now 
LM: [laughs]
CA: It’s just really interesting to find out how they sort of sell the products, especially on computer, I think it’s (.) um (.) I think the only thing that really can sell you a product is the name, I mean especially if it’s a reputable name, you know?
LM: Yeah, yeah okay, so
CA: I think people are going to go for names, you know, Marks and Spencer’s, you know you can’t go wrong
LM: That was the one you went to first
CA: Yeah (.) so (.) um it’s a bit, I suppose it would be a bit more difficult really, trying to sell on computer (.) but hm, with this I think that some, I suppose people want (.) they’re always going to buy it, they’re always going to seek it, you know?
LM: So who else do you think might be into it, apart from people who don’t particularly like say the hassle of going to the supermarket, I mean
(1.5)
CA: Hm (1.0) I think people who are at home, it depends if you’re talking about age groups, I suppose people at home
LM: Yeah, I mean age gender anything
CA: Yeah, yeah I think people sort of thirty-five plus (.) would probably buy from the web on that um (2.0) I don’t know if youngsters, students, no students wouldn’t (1.0) I don’t know, maybe the people that I know wouldn’t
LM: Mm
CA: Um (1.0) if you’re looking for something different I think you would
LM: Mm
CA: I think a lot of mums who’re at home might be interested in looking and buying on the Net, if, if they’re into computers, if they know how to use them and access them
LM: Yeah
CA: It’s just like home shopping now, obviously you can shop on TV, it’s the same thing really. Hm. I don’t know, I suppose if people had the option also of buy (.) you know being able to buy with cash, maybe that might be more (.) if they knew they could pay for the goods (1.0) I don’t know maybe I’m thinking about paying for the goods in advance (.) and then receiving the goods afterwards, I don’t know, I don’t know
LM: Okay, and there’s sort of some other things with the Internet, like I was staying about storing information (.) like the CDNow site can store information about me
CA: Yeah
LM: Um there’s a number of developments that might go along with that, and one of them is like CDNow is making offers specifically targeted at me
CA: Oh right
LM: Rather than general adverts you know
CA: Yeah
LM: So like when the first screen comes up, it’s not like ‘what’s on offer today’ it’s like specific offers to me, based
CA: Ri::ght
LM: on what they know about my tastes and
CA: yeah, yeah, yeah
LM: how much I’m prepared to spend
CA: Mm hm
LM: And stuff like that
CA: Yeah
LM: I mean, how does that sort of strike you, what would you think of that?
(2.0)
CA: I suppose it’s the same as junk mail, isn’t it really?
LM: Hm
CA: It can be a nuisance, it can be, I mean obviously they know what your likes and dislikes are and they’re, they’re obviously working on that. There might be something that you might be interested in, that’s maybe the hope
LM: Yeah
CA: They’re sort of living in hope that you know you will be interested in this
LM: Yeah
CA: So in some respects I think that’s not bad. I don’t know about the storing about that kind of information, I’d like, if the information was more rounded I think I’d feel more, a bit more pleased really
LM: What do you mean, sort of
CA: Um (.) just about general things, not only, you know
[doorbell rings]
CA: Excuse me
(20.0)
LM: Yeah what was I staying, oh about the adverts yeah, so you think it’s just like junk mail really? CA: Yeah, I do, I do, I do. I think, yeah, maybe if the information, I think if the information was just, information-based really, if it wasn’t just um (.) stylised to what (.) you personally enjoy and like
LM: Yeah
CA: It might be better really, I don’t know (1.0) Cause most junk mail that comes through, they know something about you as a person, what kind of, what your likes, likes and dislikes are
LM: Yeah
CA: So I suppose if they know that you’re interested in the product then I suppose you’re more likely to buy that product as opposed to, you know, not buying things that you have no interest in
LM: Hm
CA: (…) yeah (1.0) Hm. I think people buy (.) sometimes based on what they like (1.5) but as I said you know, sometimes when you go shopping you don’t know what you want to buy
LM: Yeah
CA: And the way they put things out (.) you’re going to go for things you’ve never tried so
LM: Yeah
CA: Yeah
LM: Okay I’m just trying to think if there’s anything else (.) we will get off the Internet though, unless there’s anywhere else you wanted to look
CA: Oh no, that’s alright I’m fine, now that I know what
LM: some food for thought?
CA: Yeah, yeah, exactly. When I go to work tomorrow I’m going to try that
(5.0)
LM: (…) shut the computer down
(8.0)
LM: So our work has been trying to figure out whether this is going to take off really, different kinds of sort of Internet shopping
CA: Mm
LM: And who might go for it
CA: Yeah
LM: So we’re interviewing a range of people some younger, men and women and whatever
CA: Mm
LM: And just seeing what kinds of people are likely to get into it
CA: Funny you saying that, I mean (.) hm (1.5) obviously as a black person, would I shop on the Net? I don’t know (.) I think people if they’re well-to-do, you know, like (.) I think a lot of, you know, say for example there was something there, if I wanted West Indian food maybe I could get that on (…)
LM: I mean living in London, I’ve been mainly interviewing Londoners and actually
CA: Yeah
LM: that changes quite a lot I find
CA: Yeah (.) Maybe, maybe if you know, I was looking for something, some specific food, maybe and I couldn’t find it anywhere in C, I’d probably think oh right, Internet, but maybe if, but
LM: You know if you’re going to find it anywhere in Britain you’re going to find it in London
CA: Exactly, exactly. And if I’m not a user of the Internet, it’s pretty difficult you know?
LM: Yeah
CA: So it’s just having the access to that. And many people don’t have computers, and many people don’t have the Internet
LM: And if it takes off in a big way, what difference is that going to make you know, in terms of those kinds of differences between who know stuff about technology and people who don’t, people who are, you know, under thirty-five
CA: Yeah, that’s right. I think a lot of people in the Local Authority probably would use it, cause they’re busy, one they’re busy, two (.) they’re doing different things with their evenings, you know like
LM: Yeah
CA: Like doing other things, like um (.)
LM: Some of the families I’ve interviewed, although they’re busy going out to shop is something they all do together. It’s like Friday night, kids get home from school and they all go to the supermarket
CA: And it’s like a social event really, yeah
LM: For other people it drives them nuts
CA: Yeah
LM: So yeah
(1.0)
CA: I think, I think a lot of people like the idea, I think the idea can grow if (.) if in some ways (.) it’s more encouraged, do you get what I mean?
LM: Hm
CA: Like home shopping now is encouraged
LM: Mm
CA: So maybe if people knew that that was something you can do on the Internet, they’re probably more likely to do it
LM: Yeah
CA: It’s just knowing how, how would they know that, you know? A lot of people, there’s so much information, as you know, on the Internet now, and like (1.0) just sitting there searching you could be there for three hours (.) so (1.0) I don’t know, it’s all so time-consuming, people don’t want to, they want to do their shopping in next to no time. I suppose you’re away from the hassle and you know, the hustle and bustle of it all, the noise, you know, the crowds, the queues (.) if it’s just easy, straightforward, you can go and do something else. So I suppose people like that idea. I:: would like that idea, I like that idea, if I came home and I had children and whatever you know?
LM: Yeah
CA: Yeah, or if there was ever an occasion where I couldn’t get out, I would like that idea
LM: And what about the stuff about the Internet, cause you were saying you know, basically that you hadn’t looked at any shopping sites before and you used it a lot for information
CA: Yeah
LM: And the Internet was sort of set up as this democratic space, like a bit anarchic, nobody knew how
CA: Yeah
LM: to control it
CA: Yeah
LM: there was all this crazy stuff out there (.) But like, what do you think about it maybe becoming quite a commercial states, because a lot of websites now are commercial or corporate websites, they’re big companies or small retailers, they’re filled with advertising
CA: Yeah
LM: They’re trying to sell you stuff
CA: Yeah
LM: Do you think that’s
CA: I think that’s fair enough really, I think that’s (.) fine. I mean obviously all of it has to be regulated, you know what I mean? You don’t want to be reading too many things and you don’t want to be bombarded only with information
LM: Mm
CA: A lot of people just want what they’re looking for (.) I mean that’s what it comes down to (1.0) Hm. I mean C (.) advertise on the Internet now, so
LM: Do they?
CA: Yeah, I mean they’ve got all their planning applications and stuff like that
LM: Right, as a sort of public access thing?
CA: Yeah, yeah
LM: Where you can get this information if you want to find it
CA: Yeah, yeah, yeah
LM: Okay
CA: All different sites, so if you’re looking for plans of a certain property, you can now get that, apparently on, on the Net, which is really good, you know, cause we’re talking about old plans, so that’s really good
LM: Yeah
CA: That’s brilliant (.) I mean, obviously we don’t have a website, but there are other local authorities have websites, like I’m sure pollution, pollution control do
LM: Yeah
CA: So
LM: Alright, okay, thanks for that, that’s very helpful





Ut29

ut29.  C2DE High IT Cohabs, 18-35.  FPR/ 15/7/99

R - R

J - J

I - Interviewer


R:	It’s definitely UK-based anyway

I:	(...)

no labels.

I:	Yeah, not especially well-known.  Well, Mickey Brazils I’ve heard of, but I haven’t heard of the others

R:	I’ve heard of ten (...)(...)

I:	Mmm

R:	Trousers

J:	Is that on the, on the(...)

R:	They’ve got more, think they’ve got more there, down the bottom.  That’s all the skirts and that there were

J:	(...) jackets

R:	go to jackets(...)

I:	If you just move off that and try it again, I don’t know what happens

R:	Maybe this will tell you the prices, you just scroll down?

I:	I think if you

J:	Click on that

R:	Click on it, yeah?

I:	I think so, either the picture or the

J:	Looks like the (...) bodywarmer doesn’t it

R:	It does, doesn’t it.  I was thinking of (...), she’d love that, Julie, not that colour though I don’t think (...) handwash

J:	(...)

R:	I mean, cos I suppose that this would be, you know in fact I saw something on here and it was English-based, I would probably trust it a bit more because I know that I could actually find that company, you know, if I needed to, or whatever, but if it’s American that would sort of put me off.  I’d be quite worried that I’d get it and I’d hate it or something like that, and I’d just have to keep it, because you know that’s the way it goes.  That’s what I’d

I:	So even though you don’t, you’ve not, you’ve never heard of London Wide before, the sort of thing that because you know that they’re based over here and you could probably find a kind of London phone number or whatever

R:	Yeah, yeah.  That’s right

J:	I think they need a few more,  I think they should get some designer clothes on there though, to an extent (...), trousers (pause)

R:	you need a pair of them

J:	(...) not my style though, sold out

R:	Fly away in them!  They’re flarey, them ones

J:	So it’s er, it’s 

R:	(...)

R:	25 pounds

J:	(...)

laughter

R:	It’s the same one on all of them.  They’ve only got one model there

J:	(...)

I:	Ohh, that’s (...)

R:	What about tops for boys?

R:	Look what that (...) does, terrible

J:	That’s er,

(...)

R:	Vengeance T-shirt.  Blimey, I think you need some (...) and some better looking models than that and all!  Jesus!

J:	Wear that in the pub..

I:	Pretty duff, innit?!

R:	It is, isn’t it?  That’s awful.  Don’t like that, what’s the news and offers

J:	Go on, get off that

R:	(laughs) that’s frightening!

J:	24 pound, navy or blue

R:	Pay me to wear that, I’ll tell ya!

J:	Just get it down at Hacket, the shop down the road, thanks

(...)

J:	Any shoes?

R:	There he is again! (laughs) mind you that shirt’s quite nice

J:	It’s a zip up, zip up isn’t it?

R:	Yeah, quite nice though

J:	Yeah?

R:	Yeah, I think so

I:	Looks good in any casual chap’s wardrobe.

R:	When talking to any potential sexual partner of your choice, stand close and just see how long before they lean over and give the zip a pull.  What?!  Blimey

J:	He’s a comedian, isn’t he, this Mickey (...)

R: (...) lager and vodka skills.  Discreet logo.  (laughs)  That’s terrible!  Bet they haven’t got anything written about the woman one have they, I wanna just.  Ah, ‘so you can pig out on lunch without worrying’ - well that sounds like me!  That’s funny!  If you read the .., quite funny.  He’s hardly .., is he?  Oh dear.  Go into cars, (...)

I:	There’s Autoweb, one of the things is called Autoweb, but I’m not sure

J:	(...)

R:	Get us out of here! (...)

J:	I think, for clothes, I’d have to (...)

R:	Forget it!

J:	(...) with my underwear on(...)

R:	Thing is, yeah, you have to try sizes on as well.  That’d put me off cos like you know you have, sometimes you’re like one size in one thing

J:	Yeah, we’re not all quite built the same, are we?

I:	You can just go up there and try typing something in, and see, have a go whatever thing you fancy

J:	Would it be www dot , auto

I:	I think there’s somewhere called Autoweb.  I haven’t researched the kind of car sites as well as I could have done (pause) that’s quite annoying

R:	Mmm.

pause

R:	Do you have to go round and see a lot of people, like, in the night then?  In your job?

I:	Mmm.  mmm.  Trying to just interview sort of as many different people as possible really, about what they think of things.

R:	Is it just in this area or do you have to travel sort of quite far

I:	Well it’s all over London, wherever I can sort of find kind of people that I want to interview really.  So I’ve got sort of, you know, wanted to interview a, you know, young couple that live together

R:	Us here with our slippers on! (?)

J:	(...)

R:	Not surprised if you draw that big

J:	Sore.  Better stop whinging.

I:	Good strong painkillers?

J:	Umm, I haven’t had any today, I only really done this about 11 o’clock in the morning, and I had painkillers all day yesterday and that was it, I haven’t had any today. (...)

I:	It’s not going?

R:	(...)

J:	Can’t feel it as bad today, it’s not too bad today

R:	That’s good

J::	It’s the, 

R:	They’d tell you that if it was bad, cos you was off your face (?)

J:	Yeah, I know.  It’s my jaw and my gum, because he had to cut it and stitch it.

I:	Ohhh.

R:	(...) bruised head, like someone punched him

I:	Yeah, a friend of mine went yellow and green

R:	I had mine done as well, it was terrible.  That might come out, the bruising

J:	I hope not.  It looks pretty manky at the bottom..

(...)

J:	Here we go, so what are we looking, we’re looking for a little car

I:	Mmm, sounds good

J:	Well, this is for, this is for R

R:	I’ve been looking for one I like, got one the other day and it sort of turned out a bit dodge

J:	(...)  Oh here we go, select a make, go for Volkswagen, (...) Porsche (laughs), keep on dreaming, nearly there, and then it should ask us for

I:	Probably find out it’s an American website or something, and they

END OF SIDE

J:	(...)Canadian, this is.  I don’t think,  I don’t think this one’s for us you know.

I:	Okay, try

J:	Where’s your, your main menu, back here, if we went to er

I:	It was that Car World thing wasn’t it?

R:	Going down

J:	Was it on your favourite places?

I:	There was one, there was something car-ish on there

J:	((...)).

R:	What’s wrong with it?  God.

I:	There’s my Car World.  There’s got to be so many. Maybe Autotrader might have one.  Have they got a website?  That is Autotrader is it?

J:	Yeah

R:	Yeah

pause

J:	Still loading.  It’s got to be up to something though, hasn’t it?

I:	mm-hmm

pause

J:	Search((...))

I:	Dino, ((...)).

J:	God.  ((...)), boats, planes, okay there’s insurance as well.

I:	Okay, so they’ve got different kinds of searches 

J:	Detailed choice, then you make one, distance, mileage, (...), this is the one

I:	It’s the kind of thing you were talking about before

J:	No hassle, you haven’t got to read it in and ask for what you want, it’s whatever they’ve got in basically.  okay.  So, 

pause

R:	Lada.  You can get that one off there!

J:	Lotus.  Be nice

J:	(...) mumbles.  That’s right, isn’t it?

R:	Should have colour down the right there as well

J:	Yeah, it does.  Oh there it is, just down there.

R:	Oh yeah  (laughs)  (...) Yugo, (...).

J:	(...), Golf, wouldn’t it?  Golf(...)

R:	Oh, it tells you the distance, the amount of miles you’ll need to travel

Computer clangs

J:	Oh God

R:	Should change that

J:	Oh okay

I:	Can I plug it in?  (...) batteries

I:	Doesn’t last as long as it used to, 

R:	You haven’t got to take ours out as well, have you?

R:	don’t know if it’s going to reach there actually, oh yeah it will

R:	Going all creaky like you

J:	Yeah I know, I’ve been (...). a bit

R:	That distance is good

J:	(...) manufacturer’s price

R:	And you put your postcode in there to show how near you want to be?  That’s good, isn’t it, with the postcode, you can tell them how many miles then they can find out

J:	okay, miles to travel (...)

R:	Forty

J:	Okay.  And, min price is going to be 5, and max is 6.

R:	(...). K-reg (...)

J:	Been there before and that, and the 406.  

R:	Some crap banger for (...)

J:	Okay.  Say you were looking for a mileage really inbetween 60 and 80 I’d have thought, you’d be lucky to get,

R:	Very lucky I should think.  (...) that search is going to come up with something.

J:	You don’t know, (...) six to ten

R:	Can’t you just really, for what reg, K, J, H?

J:	Asking for a lot there

R:	Am I?

J:	If you drive a J

R:	Hmm, H?

J:	Name colour?

R:	Blue.

R:	Blue, beige

J:	Most important feature?

R:	None

J:	(...), convertible

R:	(...) just get a Lada now

J:	Yeah?

R:	Yeah

J:	Okay, umm (...) should come off there, and that’s the one you want, oh God!

R:	Look at it, it’s quite a big form isn’t it

J:	I know, no, it doesn’t really make any difference though.   Show photos

R:	Electric windows.  Central locking, it has to have, with stereo

J:	Full service history, ABS, you know you’ll benefit (?), power steering,  ... left hand drive..., diesel ... 

R:	...

J:	There you go.  Want to go for the exact match or 

R:	No, just

J:	...

I:	I’d be impressed if they came up with exact match

...

I:	What?  User ID, right, register now.  What does it ask you for?

R:	they don’t want too much, do they?

I:	Okay, well this is quite interesting because this comes up a lot, so maybe if we look at what they’re asking for

Make them think they’ve got an incredibley rich woman who wants to buy that

J:	...

R:	...

R:	It’s huge, like a golf course ...it is big

(recording too quiet to hear words)

pause

I:	right, this is optional information

R:	So I don’t have to fill that in if I don’t want to

I:	yeah.  I suppose there’s key things they need to know, about how much money you’ve got to spend, and like are you a loyal magazine reader

R:	no.  

I:	County?  Are you London, London then?

pause

J	...

R:	 Thank you

 R:	It’s much easier just to go and buy a magazine

I:	Yeah, you see this is quite a long time to, it’s like where you know you put in all these details, and that’s

pause

I:	So anyway one of the things that I wanted to ask you about is that, obviously the Internet is something that can store quite a lot of information about you, you know like on the CD site it could track, keep a record of all my purchases and all the things I’d ever expressed an interest in, as what, you know.  And every time I log on it can put my name to the kinds of things that I’m doing, so that now, you know, we’ve looked for ... and it’ll kind of store that as one of things that is more about whom they know a little bit, but you know, already is interested in and spent a few minutes looking at.

J:	Who gets that information, it doesn’t get anywhere else though does it?

R:	You don’t get all mail and stuff for it do you?

I:	Well, I mean, that’s sort of one of the questions really about kind of shopping on the Internet, cos it’s all a bit up for grabs at the moment

R:	Mmm, yeah, I know

I:	and I just wondered what you kind of thought about that, whether it would bother you that they could have that information or what you thought they might do with it

R:	Umm, I mean, I don’t know, I mean I, it’s like, when I get stupid leaflets and stuff like that like through the door.  I mean I still get stuff from Ministry because my friend used to work there, and I just throw it straight in the bin now.  Umm, you know, it does annoy me to a certain extent but obviously if it was something I was looking for like a car, and I was interested, and say they sent me information on that, well it’s not exactly the same thing, but say they did then I’d be quite happy with that.  But umm, I think it all depends really, and sometimes it can be, it can be quite annoying, but then again I suppose if it’s something you’re interested in it’s, dunno, it’s quite hard really.  

I:	Umm

R:	I mean obviously they can’t do too much with that information because it is private but they can certainly send you sort of stuff about that product or whatever it may be.  Dunno.  that’s like a lot of things you can fill out where they say to you, do you want mail, I mean I suppose if they had a little thing there saying do you want mail to do with this and you could tick it if you did and if you didn’t you could just put a cross out.  And that, you know, if you had the choice I think that would be quite a nice idea.

I:	And what about if they don’t tell you sort of, you know, it’s not so much that they’re just getting your name and address but they’re kind of compliling this profile of your tastes and your kind of shopping behaviour and how much you spend with them on certain things?

J:	I think that’s quite nice, but I think that going and getting your address and things that aren’t, I’ve had a bad experience before with that, with somebody trying to get a, get a loan and a driving licence in my name.  So I’ve had a bad experience with that before and the last thing I want to do is to, is to give people I do not know my name and address because I know what they’re capable of, what some people are capable of doing, and it’s, and it probably wouldn’t happen, but you have to be careful with whoever gets your details as I well know now.  But, umm, that was a couple of years ago but

R:	... you know, if they sort of done that or whatever, but  I mean the issue, sometimes when you give your credit card number out over the phone, it makes me think to myself, you know, you can’t umm, if they can just take my number and take whatever money off that, then they could do it as well, quite easily as long as they knew my address, I mean they could possibly get it delivered somewhere else or something, and they might have moved on or whatever, and you’d never be able to trace it.  Things like that do worry me a little bit as well

I:	Mmm

R:	I suppose it’s, you know, the risk you take but a lot of umm

J:	... South-west 6,

R:	Found one!

J:	... 1.8 cabriolet, it’s 230 ... , 1.8 cabriolet, G-reg, two lady owners, ... exterior, immobiliser

R:	I like that colour

J:	Watford, within 15 minutes

R:	Watford, yeah it is.  That’s really good actually, I mean

J:	get you started now

R:	could be here all night!

J:	That’s exactly what you want as well

R:	Will it click on or is there not going to be any picture with this one

J:	No, there’s not always pictures on there

R:	That’s grey metallic that one

J:	Get you a picture on that

R:	Is that grey metallic, black paintwork

J:	That’s green isn’t it, green metallic, don’t want green, ... H-Reg unmarked white bodywork, no, don’t want an H do you

R:	No, just wanted to look at it out of interest

J:	How much you want one for?

R:	...  

J:	No

I:	So what do you think about this site then?

J:	I think it’s very good

R:	Mmm, it is very good

J:	Yeah, yeah it is good, but on the other hand I mean half of those have gone in fact if not all of them have gone

I:	Right

J:	The advantage of having it in the paper when you go down there Thursday morning and pick it up at 6 in the morning is that you know that when you ring it up you’re going to be one of the first people to get it there

I:	So it’s a bit like Loot or something

J:	Yeah, it is, so you don’t know when that information was put on the computer so unless you can, you could track when the records were put on there, cos I know that if that’s sold then that, that may well be sold, and that information might not come off by the end of the week so if there was something  on there to say this information is as new as such a date and such a time, then that might be slightly better to have it that way, cos you’d probably find out that’s sold

R:	I quite like how far it tells you, how, that’s really good

J:	Yeah, that’s what you look for -  it just cuts out the other 150 pages that you don’t look at in the Autotrader doesn’t it

R:	Yeah

J:	Cos you only buy it to look at one specific car or a few specific cars and then you’re just wasting paper at the end of the day so if it has benefits and er, just ... it’s very good though,... like that

I:	And presumably this might be something that you might be more inclined to experiment with if you had, sort of, less restrictions on access at work, like

R:	But that’s what I don’t understand, it’s not that expensive to use, why, why are they like that at work?

J:	That’s because you don’t need any reason why, these people start downloading data from the Internet onto work computers and it can be carrying viruses or bugs and if it gets into the mainframe, and especially at work now, cos we’re right above the National Computer Centre aren’t we so if we were to get a virus or something in there then the whole entire system would crash or something

R:	Yeah, the system crashes every other bloody day anyway

J:	Mmm.  That’s why. 

I:	I just wanted to have a look at a slightly more boring thing which is Tesco’s.

J:	(laughs)

R:	I could not do my shopping on here, like that, I really couldn’t 

J:	What if you were housebound ...

R:	I think men’d like it cos I think, cos they hate going round shops don’t they

J:	Yeah, I do

I	And do you quite enjoy, you know, going to the supermarket

J	Very enjoys her supermarket shopping (?)

R:	..., you just pick up things, don’t you, like when you browse round you forget things

J:	Forget what you go for, never.

I:	So you’re getting carried away by the supermarket experience?

J:	Yeah

R:	Yeah, I mean, it’s nice to have a look round I think, cos you always see new things, and you think, ‘oh, that looks nice’

J:	That’s where we differ though, cos, with all in all I tend to get slightly pissed off with it and I just sort of wander away and end up sitting outside

R:	‘Are we done yet?’

J:	And getting all ‘yeah, are we done now?’

R:	Or he’s putting biscuits in there, and he’s like, you know, stuff that I don’t want to have in the house cos I’ll eat it otherwise.  You know, bloody annoying it is!

J:	Okay.  Right, are you already on there now?

I:	No, I’m not on this one so we’re going to use their little guest thing. It’s not terribly sophisticated, the version they’ve got’s a sort of demo, but basically the way Tesco’s run their kind of home shopping thing is that they send you like a CD with all their kind of products and prices, so you’re not actually on-line when you’re compliling lists of what you want and then I think you just go to the website or you just email it or something, you know, you just kind of send it, you kind of click on, you kind of load up the program and you click on something and it automatically opens to the Tesco website and you just kind of press Send.  And you can update and check for things

R:	By the time you’ve done all this you could be round the bloody supermarket and got most of this

J:	But if you were housebound or something like that and you were doing it, I mean

R:	Yeah I suppose so

J:	I don’t think this is a bad idea.  Do they deliver it all?

I:	Yeah

R:	Don’t even have to go out of your door, ... pizza

J:	Yeah, pizzas and ...

R:	Pot noodles

I:	Yeah, they haven’t got like Pizza Express on line yet or anything, sadly

R:	That’d be quite good wouldn’t it

J:	You could just email your order to then couldn’t you and say I want a large meat feast pizza

R:	You’d be a big fat couch potato by the end of it

J:	I think it depends on how, if you really want to sit there on your computer and order everything, then that’s, that’s great but I think it takes away part of the fun.  Oh, look at this

R:	Chicken Tonight, Sizzle and Stir...

J:	 

I:	So yeah, so they just have different sections...

R:	Like you would in a, in a supermarket

I:	Yeah

R:	Yeah, funny

J:	Off-licence

R:	I’ve never seen, I’ve never seen a supermarket one before

J:	This probably should be a bit more interesting

R:	food items

R:	... going to France, can bring us back these crates of beer

I:	Great!

J:	Ah wait!  Seeing a Kodak 3 times APS films multipack now.  You’d think by the time you’d paid your 2.95 on top of that

R:	Yeah, you see, that’s such a small thing.  They sell everything, honestly everything you can think of

J:	The amount of jewellry they sell on there’s unbelieveable as well.

R:	9.99


I:	Do you think that will take off, and if so, sort of who do you think will go for it?

R:	I think a lot of bachelor men would go for something like this, you know like

I:	For shopping

R:	Yeah

I:	For food shopping, young men?

R:	Cos they, I mean they can’t be sort of like arsed to get up and go round and get it

J:	You’re dead right there

R:	Yeah, I think that

J:	You’re dead right, that’s my sort of thing.  Order it off the Internet, go down the pub and maybe meet it when it gets back, sort of thing, that’s what I’d want to do.

R:	I’d rather go and have a look round, myself, I think quite a, most of my mates would, as far as I would think, that they wouldn’t do this, they’d like to go and have a look.  Cos you know, new things always catch your attention, you might not actually be looking for that and you just think sort of, oh, that looks nice, and just throw it in.  But you couldn’t really have the option to do that

I:	Yep. Unless they were kind of advertising it, in your face

R:	Yeah, I suppose, if it flashed up

I:	But then it might be annoying I suppose

I:	But what about other kinds of things, I mean we’ve only looked at a few in terms of CDs, books, clothes, and which of those things appeal?

J:	I’d be quite interested in the CDs and books, not the clothes, it’s not really, I don’t think I’d buy, I don’t know many people that would.  I mean, do you know people who buy clothes off of there, or?  No?

R:	It’s not that, it’s the sizing and stuff.  Cos like, every shop you go into, especially for women I think, you’ll go in somewhere and you’ll try something on in a size, and you’ll go to the next shop and you’ll have to have a size bigger or something, so it’s really, and obviously if you’ve got the hassle of sending it back you don’t order two in each size to try it on and then send it back.  So I mean, I wouldn’t order clothes off that, I mean I’d like, a Calvin Klein, like a top or something you know if it’s medium or large, that would be easy.

J:	But some things may be like, I don’t know, say like Levis, you know, chances are if you’ve had a 30-30, it’s, you’re always going to be that

R:	Yeah, that’s right, yeah, if it’s a certain make and you, you know, you sort of like know that, but otherwise I’d be very sort of apprehensive about ordering something off there

I:	And more generally, just the whole kind of e-commerce thing, like shopping with computers, do you think that’s aimed at any one group in particular or do you think they want the kind of big mass audience for this?

R:	It’s definitely, I mean it’s not for older people, I mean

J:	I think when you say ... competitive

I:	Well, I suppose there’s peop - I mean like the Government’s quite keen for e-commerce to take off, it’s just written some new stuff about that

J:	I think they like the thought of, that it could be multicultural, multi-age and everything, that it’ll be a mix of every  age and every person would do it, but I just don’t think that everybody.  It’s not cheap to sit and buy one of these anyway, for a start, unless you want to go down to the library and pay them a couple of pound an hour to sit there and use theirs, so that’s not very cheap to do that, to even get yourself started up with 

R:	But I think a lot of people find it frightening as well, who don’t actually work with it.

J:	I know,  it’s a daunting thing to get a computer if you don’t know how to use one

R:	There’s so many things you can do with them, it’s just, if you don’t know it all it’s just a waste of time getting one really.  You’ve got to learn, I mean, be nosy and inquisitive, then fine, but some people aren’t 

J:	I think with time, probably get better with time as well as computers become cheaper, technology advances, this’ll become easier to use.  A lot easier to use.  It’ll be touch-screen soon, so that’ll be much easier

R:	Yep

I:	So maybe actually, you’re possibly the kind of people that they might be targeting this at - to the extent that you’re young and you use computers already, I mean maybe they’d have like free access at work but you know, you probably will do at some point soon, they’re likely to

R:	The company’s stingy though

J:	you really need to advertise it through the internal mailing systems (?), can’t you, that’s one way you could do it.  You’d have to part with some cash first of all, up-front, and then that would be it wouldn’t it, do it that way.  All major companies have, get internal email don’t they.  Ours is huge, absolutely huge ours.

R:	Thing is, they don’t actually give it to everybody, our company though

J:	cos it costs them money as well

R:	you have to, you know, you have to be on a certain 

(dog barking)

R:	And in our company they don’t let everyone have email, there’s, all the engineers have but certain members of staff and that don’t have it, which is a bit

I:	sort of hierarchy of kind of like

R:	Yeah, if you like.  It’s a bit stupid really, but it’s just, you know, they can have a sort of like a certain extent where they could, where the engineers could send them a message but internally within the company, you know you haven’t got the ability to go in and look who you actually want to send ... to, so you know, it’s a bit like that.  I mean, our company’s probably a bad example of it really.

I:	Well I think a lot of companies kind of regulate, you know, certainly Internet use

R:	Mm

I:	So not everybody can have access, or they can only have it for sort of fifteen minutes a day so they’re not kind of, wasting time or whatever

J:	That’s interesting,

I:	Okay, well that’s pretty much, you know, all I wanted to ask you








Ut30

UT30; HI IT; C2DE; COUPLE 36-55; 26/7/99


PL: Well hello, I’m Pete.
G: And G and 
C: C.
PL: Hi. Okay well we’re talking to people about the Internet and shopping over the Net. But can I start by asking you what each of your experience with computers is.
G: Yeah I’ve had a bit of office experience with computers in terms of the Microsoft Office access and Excel and what have you. Although I’m not office-bound I work for a glazing company so I’m out on the road most of the time, but in - going back a couple of years - I was doing some work with an access data base in a place where there’s very little computer knowledge somebody with a little knowledge is sought after to do all sorts of different things and so spending a bit of time on it there I understood the basics of how Access and Excel, to a very limited degree, work. And we’ve had a connection to the Internet at home for about 2 years and we’ve recently switched from one provider to another. But it’s not something we use a great deal. And we had a set-up with BT on a 3 hours a month deal and don’t use it anything like that length of time. But we’ve just gone across to something called Screaming dot net which is a free Internet provider and also a free telephone connection by switching it away from BT to local tel. So that’s a recent development. And one of the things that’s driven that is we’ve got hold of a piece of software called ICQ which enables you to have a conversation with somebody anywhere else in the world - providing both of you have got that software loaded then you get a split screen comes up and you hold a conversation to Australia as we have done recently and it’s a conversation by typing and as you type this end they see it on their screen and vice versa. So I think that will increase our time on-line because it’s a facility  we’ve got friends there that we talk to fairly regularly and so now to get this service where it’s all paid for appears to be ideal - we will see. So that ‘s my background.
C: Well my knowledge is secretarial so I’m word-processor, Word, Excel - not Access - a bit of Powerpoint - and really self-taught.
PL: Learning by doing the job 
C: Yeah. And I work for the National Health and in the last month they’ve had an Intranet out on the system which is just all about the service.
PL: Right - and are you going to have access to that?
C: It’s half Intranet and half Internet, I don’t have access to the Internet but basically you can just look up someone and find what area they’re in and that sort of thing, but the Internet I won’t have access to, it’s just for Head of Department. And that’s my knowledge of the Internet other than the ICQ.
G: Yeah and we’ve done some stuff at home where we search for something like looking for flights to Australia and so on.
C: I find it so hard going I’ve got no time for it. If I can’t go dot dot dot 
G: Click in find and 
C: I can’t be trying to type in...
PL: Trying to find things 
G: Yeah is more difficult than you think...
C: We don’t sit and surf - you get people who say they’ve sat on it all night long 
G: 5 hours or 6 hours or something yeah.
C: And I work with a young girl like that but I just haven’t got the time to waste so I really haven’t got that interest to sit and play with it.
G: It’s easier if you’ve got the address but to sit and use the search engines - maybe we’re using the wrong criteria, and I guess you’ve got to be quite clear in the information you give it in order for it to give you what you’re looking for back again. But National Trust for instance took us ages and someone said you can use a plus symbol and is you do that then it will search more specifically or putting the word in quotation marks means you have to have both of them together...
C: That takes me right back to the very first days of computers and programming typing in these programmes to actually do things and they were all very much, and even ten you’d type these pages of things out of books and sometimes they wouldn’t work at the end of the day.
PL: So do you think it’s at that stage  do you think the Internet will become easier to use as computers more generally have...?
C: Yes, yes.
G: I think it’s got to become a lot easier and for us it’s a case of learning how the search engines work. I have looked in the library but...
C: For the sort of things we use...
G: Well there’s a book site now with WH Smiths where you can buy books cheap over the Net which we’d love to do but...
C: Can’t find it.
G: But can’t find the book site and I’ve asked them what their address is and they say well if you’re a club card member you can take this CD away and they then become your Internet provider but I don’t want that I just want the site address. So we’ve found it very difficult and consciously in your mind you’re paying for the phone call and you’re paying for the service and if you’re allocated 3 hours then you tend to thing 10 minutes in one evening is enough for that evening. Having it on unlimited use and having someone else paying the bill providing it’s after 6 at night and before 8 in the morning so that may make a difference.
C: That doesn’t bother me so much, I just find it irritating that I can’t scan, I need to be in there and know what I’m doing but G’s got the patience of a saint but I find it difficult.
G: I’ve found the difference between BT and this new provider quite a contrast in the speed at which you can get information the ease of getting on-line, big differences really. So you’re getting it for free but you pay a price for that. I’m not sure whether Screaming ties in with the Dixons Freeserve but that seems to be the one that everyone’s talking about. In fact they’ve floated the shares today and they’ve done extremely well but obviously a very competitive market place  AOL
C: And Asda...
G: So many providers out there now. BT was very quick and very straightforward. When we first got the machine Microsoft MSN was on but that was unlimited use and was an option of 15 pounds a month as an unlimited user or not at all, nothing, so we tried it for a month and then went to BT. BT worked very well they had a lot of information available, it was easy to find your way round, but there were a number of things we just struggled to find.
C: I don’t think I’ve ever sat down myself and searched for anything I think you need a purpose.
G: We did look for addresses for National Youth Hostels when some people were coming over and wanted some addresses and you do have to be quite patient and be prepared to sift through.
C: We looked for flight details for somewhere and we never found the site again...
G: Yeah you can bookmark a site or something can’t you so you can back to it but you’ve got to think of that when you’re there and we didn’t. But we have filled out forms for companies to come back to you about cheapest flights available on that day and so on - never ever been a response back which is disappointing... I’m a little bit concerned about putting credit card details onto there as well but I did do it for someone else with their consent obviously, they wanted a bit of software and you had to get from somewhere in the States  but I’d be much more comfortable giving credit card details over the phone than I would over the Internet I just think it’s available to a lot more people. They know what sites you’ve been to and maybe your address and so how many people are going to get that information. I’m not sure if people can tap into the conversations we have but we feel they’re just general chit-chat conversations so they’re not of any real benefit to anybody if they were looking in.
PL: Yeah but it’s occurred to you that someone may be able to tap in...
G: Yeah yeah.
PL: So if it were more personal information then...
G: Yeah... I have something on my machine, ‘Quicken’ which has financial details on it and I read somewhere that one of these bugs that are downloaded through the Internet can go in and access files that are in Quicken, pull off the details, withdraw cash from that account - set up a false standing order if you like - so you’ve got to be very watchful  so there is a concern with it that how many people can see what you’re doing. I mean there’s always a danger that that can happen on the telephone that people can pick up on the call but I feel more comfortable with that than the Internet.
PL: So where did you find that information about Quicken?
G: I read it somewhere and I can’t think where but it talked about viruses... it was in, I’m sure, just a magazine... I have picked up a couple of magazines... Access Internet is it... or something like that - a beginners guide to the Internet and it may have been in there. I bought 2 or 3 over 18 months, could have been in there. So I’m very careful in terms of what I would open - you know if I got an email from someone I didn’t recognise and I got a file attachment with it I probably wouldn’t open it - it may have done its damage anyway but I’d just be a bit concerned.
PL: Looking into the future what would reassure you about credit cards?
C: Maybe some sort of security coding so they could issue you with a secret security number or...
G: There is a password in there and I must say I don’t really understand cos I haven’t used it and don’t know enough about it to know how secure that is and how I’d set that up to make it unique to us and even then how secure it would be cos presumably someone’s governing that and the information through that even with the password on it. But... so yeah, it’s not knowing I suppose. If we used it everyday then  don’t think we’ve used it since last week and Screaming dot net have got problems because of the tremendous volume of people that are coming on board..
PL: That’s right, BT couldn’t...
G: Yeah, couldn’t shift the numbers across quickly enough and there seems to have a lot of local tel saying BT are to blame and BT are saying they’ve done their bit and it’s not their problem. But the email addresses, we haven’t had anything through on email since the end of June and I’ve got others to send email and they’ve got it there sitting in their out-box to show it’s been sent but nothing ever arrives. If it was going back and saying ‘can’t deliver this message’ then at least they’d know to phone us instead so there could be a lot of mail sitting there 
PL: You can send a message to yourself to test that out.
G: What from home?
PL: Yeah you can just send it to your own address and see if you get it.
G: Right. I’ve tried it with 2 or 3 people saying when you get the message do a return to sender but it never ever came back, never.
PL: Well try sending one to yourself.
G: Yeah right I’ll do that. They say they’ve got problems with their email server and it’ll be some time before it’s sorted out.
PL: What do you think about this, because on the one hand we’ve got the freeserve launch and it’s doing quite well obviously and on the other hand you’re telling me about quite poor service.
G: Oh dreadful service really.
PL: Well how do we put these 2 things together...
C: They need to get themselves sorted out. They must realise that word’s going to spread and they’re going to get an awful lot of people taking it up. Isn’t it all going to be free at some point someone was saying.
G: Well again I’ve read somewhere that BT have said that if you have their unlimited service option which is 140 quid a year, they are now giving free phone calls all day Saturday and Sunday from 12 midnight Friday till 12 midnight on Sunday. So you’d dial your Internet connection and you’d get free calls on that which is how the local tel thing works. But they seem to be surprised with the response that they’ve had but it’s dreadful. We’ve had a little bit of use out of ICQ, but I can send them a message but we can’t get a response back, they have to fax us back  other than the fact that we’ve got this ICQ connection so we can keep in touch that way. Bit it is absolutely dreadful and we’re close to going back to BT and I’ve written to them complaining. But one situation I was desperate to get an email I knew was waiting and I had 80 attempts - over 80 attempts before I got a line free to connect me whereas with BT you click it in and straight through - not every time but probably only one occasion when it wasn’t immediate.
C: And I can’t be bothered...
PL: Yeah right anticipating that...
G: Yeah and there’s been times when we’ve arranged with Australia to both be on-line at a certain time to have our conversation and we’ve waited 3 quarters of an hour or more just trying to get on-line to have that conversation by which time they’ve gone from the other end cos they think you’ve forgotten all about it. So it’s very very frustrating.
PL: At the moment there’s this trade-off between relatively expensive services that work well or free services that have various problems with them.
G: Yeah and I don’t know whether the likes of freeserve would be as bad...
C: Don’t know whether to chop and change and see...
PL: Right, cos it’s a very fast-moving market.
G: Yeah and for us we could see the benefit of having this free access and therefore the free contact with Australia, friends in America as well and there’s a real benefit if they can get that service right. They’ve said now they’re going to cut you off after 3 hours which wasn’t the deal but I assume that people get a line and set it running and if it takes an hour before it connects they go out and water their garden and have their tea and all that and come back to it - if you get a connection don’t lose it! So now there’s a cut-off point.
PL: So now there’s a 2 hour limit.
G: Yeah and then you have to go through that rigmarole of connecting again. Don’t know how they manage to pay all those calls either but at the moment we’ve got it and that’s it. Some companies are trying to buy their way out now of agreements of free calls and it makes you wonder whether local tel in time are going to try and buy their way out of this particular deal because you just wonder where the finance is coming from.
C: It’s almost too good to be true - or would be if you could get on-line.
G: Yeah which limits the amount of time you can actually use it.
C: But to be able to use it you need to be able to go on and do it and come away.
G: And, we’re hopeful, but that isn’t what we’re seeing at this moment in time but if it’s still the same in another 3 weeks time we’ll switch back to BT.
G: But I bought a pair of shoes some time ago from Italy and it’s now an interest to me to see if I can go on and search for the shoe manufacturers and use the Internet to find them.
C: No is the answer.
PL: Well we’ll try in a minute and see.
G: But it’s that sort of thing - books as well.
C: Yeah cos they’ve been advertising on Capital Radio about 15 percent off books and they give you the Website address at the end and you’re driving along and you think must remember it...
G: But I have spoken to WH Smith and it’s...
C: WH Smith dot com...
G: No, dot co dot uk. Now dot com used to be just American companies but now I’m not sure it could be anyone wanting to portray a global image if you like whereas if you’re British then dot co dot uk.
C: Someone I know who moved to New Zealand and married a guy who’s a computer whiz and she emailed us and said this is our Web page find out all about us - could we get on there..? And yet she’d send us photos on the email they’d scanned them in and we couldn’t get the page for love nor money.
G: But, no, in terms of what we’ve actually bought - very little but we have had some experience of it. It seems like we’ve sat here for hours and hours and you sit there and then the screen freezes and oh 
C: But then we do log-off quick but 
G: But we’ve had very few successes where we’ve searched for something and been able to find it. Lots of things where we can see why we get the stuff we do - say we put in ‘National’ and it comes up with stuff but not what we want. But I can see the day where we can do our shopping  not fresh stuff but tins and that...
C: Oh I don’t know I’ve got a friend at work who shops at Tesco and has used the Tesco Website but found that slightly difficult. But she had problems cos she ordered 10 pounds of potatoes and got 10...
PL: 10 potatoes...? C: Yes. And it was very much that what she put was what she got but that again is a learning curve of what to do.
G: But I can see us getting to a stage where you can do that and I’d be happy with that as long as it was a list and not having to scan the bar-code in to make sure you get that size tin or whatever or whether you view your way round the local store. But I guess that’s what it’s got to get to and then you just go down to your local store and pick up your 2 boxes..
PL: Right, a virtual reality type thing.
G: Yeah I guess. Sorry my parents are staying with us at the moment - excuse me.
PL: But you’re not tempted to use this supermarket..
C: I’m not sure but we’ve had a whiz round Safeways with the zapper gun and that’s quite... you start gingerly but we were very very careful of how we zapped it so not to scan it twice but I think it tells you when you’ve got a special offer scan twice and it takes it off and you take your scanner back and put it in the hole and it gives you this little bar code which you take to the checkout and it then prints you a massive list. I suppose the more you use it the more...
G: I think something of a role reversal, the concern is not that someone’s put it something in your trolley but more that they’ve taken something out cos you’ve logged it on, you’re going to pay for it, it’s you know, a worry.
C: I still felt ginger about using the zapper gun - I use one at work for logging in results and I think nothing of using it but with this I was worried about putting it in twice. The first time they check your trolley for you. But if we shopped in that store all the time we would use it but we don’t.
G: Yeah I would see a time when you could go into a shop and not see food on the shelves just see a wallchart with a picture and bar code and then you zap it. And okay with fresh stuff you want to feel the bread and see if it’s soft but...
C: It maybe a long way off... but you’ll get to the stage where you’d never go outside your door.
PL: We’ll take a look at it in a minute, cos Tesco is one of the ones we can go to.
G: There is a bit of a concern as well that they’re starting to get this ever-so detailed breakdown of what you eat, how often you eat it there’s something of a concern there as well  
C: It happens in the stores anyway...
G: Yeah but over the computer it’s electronically there and it’s...
PL: I think that is an issue cos they’ve got much more data on us than they used to have, and it would be stupid not to use it in a sense.
G: Well they’ll get to a stage where you regularly have a particular item and they can drop you in a very tempting brochure telling you what you want is coming in at just the right time...
C: Yeah but then we get stuff here now for the people who lived here 2 years ago.. G: Well they’ve got out of date databases...
PL: Well I suppose these marketing techniques are not new...
G: Yeah but they’ve got more and more detailed information available. I think the more specific you become - you know, they’ll send you the catalogue of what they know you like. It’s just a little bit of a concern as to how much information is being built up on you. And there are benefits...
PL: Well yes cos you’re saying how difficult to find what you want so I suppose from that point of view it would improve the service, but you’ve got some doubts about it...
G: Yeah just some reservations yeah as to how much.
C: It needs to be easier...
G: Yeah, for searching, but I’m reluctant to give too much away, you know I’m conscious of getting that balance really I suppose. But I guess overall we’re interested enough to have taken the step of getting on board in the first place.
C: And maybe a time goes on it may get more 
G: We wouldn’t have taken the step I don’t think of getting this provider if it wasn’t for coming across this bit of software that links of overseas, that’s what driven it rather than wanting to search the Net...
C: It’s nice to have there and it’s another avenue for information.
G: And you can see the benefit I mean like if you could load the dimensions of your room in for DIY and see what it would look like in Post-box Red or Royal Blue or whatever and be able to view it on screen it’s a step on from these MFI kitchen design software...
C: And then have them deliver the kitchen to your door.
G: But that seems to me a logical step - it may be out now - to design say a bathroom and ask would a bath go in that corner and so on.
PL: And gardening as well.. yeah, that’s interesting. Well let’s have a look at some sites. Can you see the screen alright?
G: Yeah fine. There are some packages as well where you can link a camera to it and view 
END OF SIDE ONE
PL: Right, here we are it just takes a while for it to go through it’s loading routine. I’ve got different Internet providers on here there’s Compuserve, Extreme is a free thing and we’ve got this one which is a connection through my work - we’ll try this one first.
G: And Netscape is a rival of Microsoft Internet Explorer.
PL: Yeah, it is, they’re the browsers. Right here we go. So I’m just logging on here. So we’re logged on now and so now we’ll open up a browser Netscape and then we can look at the bookmarks and see what we want to look at.
G: That’s very similar in terms of the address bar. What dictates what gets stored in there.
PL: Well the last stuff that you did gets stored, the last so many things. So there’s Loot, there’s Tesco, Autotrader. We could try some of these - what do you fancy?
G: Well the Tesco’s would be useful.
PL: Okay let’s have a look. So this is how it works at its best at the moment.
G: And is that a fast one? PL: Not really, it’s a 56k modem.
G: That’s fairly good though ours is 33.6 and it’s moved on and now 56 isn’t fast.
PL: Now this is Tesco’s. So...
G: Oh do you have to have a password to 
PL: Yeah. Now this is Tesco’s homepage, Tesco Direct, with different things from Tesco.
G: Now they ask you that to start with, before you could go in and search you’d have to give that information? PL: Yeah. If you’re a new person here you’d go here and you’d say ‘join us’ and then you’d go through an on-line questionnaire and give your details.
G: Right. Ah, we’ve tended to shy away a little from that where it goes through a detailed questionnaire.
PL: And they won’t let you register if you leave anything blank. I’m just entering my password. And here’s a security warning.
G: And if you buy stuff would you still have that warning or would you then go on to a secure 
PL: Once you’re in, well they do have various secure systems broken up into different bits. Okay, so it knows who I am and welcomes me and reminds me what my nearest store is. So this is the different categories of food, so do you want to have a go  it’s very sensitive. Now you went for fruit and vegetables.
G: Well I was actually going for bread but I obviously missed that. So now we could go towards 
C: Let’s look at salads this time of year.
PL: Right now this is the stuff you can choose what shall we try?
G: Well we’re on lettuce so... right we’ve got a basket so we could already do our shopping here if we wanted to go...
PL: Oh look there are no products in this list so no lettuce  you’d have thought they’d have some 
G: So is this relatively new or..?
PL: No it’s been for quite a while but they’ve recently updated it and this is the new version of it. Oh here we are, so here’s the tomatoes... 
G: Okay so if we hit there we could say 2 of those and then move down there and add it...
PL: Yeah exactly and we can check what’s in my shopping basket my...
G: Right so this is other people have used it and just added to it...
PL: Yeah. So if you’re building up your shop... what do you think of the site?
G: Yeah that’s quite good isn’t it...
C: Yeah, yeah.
G: But it’d probably take a while to work your way round it probably longer than it would to walk round the store.
C: But then you’d get used to what you wanted and...
PL: Yes, and we’re doing this on-line at the moment but there’s a download...
G: Ah, so you could do the whole thing off-line, but it wouldn’t matter with the freeserve.
PL: Yeah true but you can do all this off-line and then when you’ve got your list ready you can send it.
G: So into meat and then across to chicken.
PL: There you are, there’s your different chickens.
G: What about portions  right and then you can just work your way across and you can presumably click and drag that in some way. Now into there and go for 4 of those in the basket...
PL: And you can store your list from one week to the next...
C: Oh and then after this you arrange to have it delivered?
PL: That’s right.
G: How about if we were looking for a book  - who was it by - how successful...
PL: Well it’s got a search engine within Tesco’s so rather than going through all the search trees you can come out and say I want this.
G: So go into there and click in the box?  and type and then click on search... oh it has found it 
C: But you have to know the name of like the frilly lettuce say...
PL: Yeah maybe they should have a picture image. Something like that would be good but would slow it up a lot. The design is really bland 
G: Oh yeah  I can’t add to that, how do I get that in there, oh add it up there, click enter 
PL: And it’s put it in the basket. When you’ve finished you go to the check out 
G: Oh 2 hour delivery slot starting at and then you can choose oh, crikey and there’s a 5 pound delivery charge  mmm... that’s okay for an old - but then an old aunt wouldn’t know how to get in there in the first place.
PL: I suppose it’s so that you don’t use it for a small number of items.
G: Well that should disappear if you spend over 20 pound or...
C: Yeah and if you did this every week you should get a loyalty bonus or something...
PL: What were you asking about...
C: Oh your shoes...
PL: Yeah the shoes and then the book. Let’s look for the book.
G: If I don’t know the address would you search ?
PL: Yeah I’d have a go at this first... right there we go, here we are. This is WH Smith on-line and what have they got  shopping  books, that’s it, you’ve got it. 
G: So would that store that in there?
PL: Well I’ll put it in my bookmarks 
G: This is an incredible line...
PL: It’s not bad is it. So these are their Summer discounts.
G: What’s that, a list of...
C: Ooh, thumping good reads...
PL: Interesting, not titles but they’re giving you categories.
G: But you could search here presumably  what was it, Iris Gower 
PL: Here we are, Iris Gower.
G: Oh, so if you worked your way oh that’s the new one  4:19 rather than  but when I was in WH Smith today it was 3:99.
PL: Ah, that’s not very good is it  So you can see there’s a style building up that they’re starting to use for these kind of sites.
G: Yeah.
C: It may be a 20p delivery charge or something.
PL: You’ve got to pay delivery as well.
G: Or could you collect it from your local store?
PL: No but that would be an interesting idea.
C: Yeah so they saved it for you.
G: Yeah cos you may not want to have it delivered, just put aside for you.
PL: Yeah now this is the checkout to see what they do  ah so you have to be an account holder so you’d have to go through a registration procedure like...
C: At the beginning.
PL: Yeah, let’s compare this with one of the other programmes that do this... Amazon 
C: Ah yeah this is the one I wrote down, not WH Smiths.
G: Yeah Amazon.
PL: So here’s the Amazon.
G: And if we went into the search there  let’s see how it copes  enter.
PL: There we go.
C: We can get it large print, but that’s hardback. So if this is American then would it be in dollars I’d be buying it?
PL: Yeah.
G: Oh, so you’ve got convert, so how does that work at the checkout stage?
PL: Well if you pay by credit card they convert it for you.
G: But how do you know how much you’ve paid unless you know what the current conversion rate is.
PL: Ah so they don’t have that in stock, that’s interesting.
C: So presumably you’d get a fair sized delivery charge cos it’s being sent from the States rather than 
PL: It’s not that different actually. Right I thought I’d go to one to show what the site’s like. So we can get customer comments  oh you can be the first person to review this book and then you can look at other people’s views of that book.
G: Mmm very favourable responses from the author’s friends and family.
PL: Yeah I suppose so.
G: Can you store that registration, do they all want the same - can you put in your address and so on once and then transfer it Tesco’s and Sainsbury’s.
PL: Not at the moment but it’s possibly one of the things that they’re talking about developing 
G: But they want your details even before you’ve looked at prices or what have you and you think I don’t want to go through all that only to find they’re 10 percent more expensive than what I’ve got anyway, so we don’t bother.
PL: But another thing that might develop is this intelligent agent and you send it off and search 
G: But isn’t that what the search engines do anyway?
PL: Well yes but you can do this off-line. So you turn off your computer and when you log back on it will give the information. Does that sound...? G: Well yes, the fact that you’re not having to sit in front of it while  I mean even tonight we’ve got a lot of information relatively quickly, but it’s still...
PL: What were those shoes you were going on about G: Well they were Italian, Mr. Valentino. Were sold by John Lewis.
PL: Now here’s the search tips.
C: Sometimes you get a list of Yahoo and all the others and I don’t know which one...
G: Well Yahoo, Altavista, there are several different engines that all work similarly do they?
PL: Yeah, slightly different approaches.
C: Presumably the more you use it the easier it gets.
G: But if we put in Mr. and Valentino it will presumably bring up loads of...
PL: Yeah you have to link them together and you can do that, you have to do that... okay let’s see what it gives us.
G: But if we were then to add ‘shoes’ to that search...
PL: Well let’s try it cos that’s not working.
G: So now I’m putting in plus shoes, then does it have to have all of those?
PL: Yeah. Okay, here we are, is that it 
G: No I don’t know if that’s right or not. These were a casual shoe not a black bmak sole but they may make other types... it is a starting point.
PL: Valentino’s menswear, you’d have to follow some of those up  shoemaker to the stars.
G: Now how did that come up cos it’s not 
PL: To be a whole phrase you have to put it in inverted commas. Let’s see if they’ll let you do it.
C: How do you know what to add to it?
PL: I don’t know, it’s a skill thing... anyway that’s how you go about  now what other shopping things can I show you - how about Loot, do you want to see that?
C; Yeah.
G: Yeah.
PL; Oh look they’ve got auctions - do you want to have a look at that?
G: Yeah.
PL: Ooh, different kinds - car boot items, clothing rails, roller blades... oh I see this is an auction from within Loot that people have put in through Loot... my son wants some of these let’s have a look  roller blades, current winning bid is 13 pounds, he won’t sell it unless it goes to 25 pounds.
G: Ooh... closes Wednesday...
PL: Size 4, oh no good...
G: Top 10 bids..
C: ‘I want to bid’
G: No, we don’t want to get into all that...
PL: Pretty good isn’t it?
G: Yeah, not seen any of those before. Winning bid 300 pounds - cor they were a bit optimistic with their 550... oh there was only one bid.
C: But they could choose whether to accept it or not. Mmm that’s good.
G: Now if we went into... would it search for an item like that if we pushed go 
PL: Here we are, here’s an auction...
G: 100 quid 14 by 15  
PL: Fish tank 5ft... that’s a big one...
G: Yeah, isn’t it.
C: 151 pound.
PL: So someone’s bid just over. Actually we’re having too much fun we’re running out of time.
C: Oh well this is enjoyable this is.
G: Yeah you can start to see how you could spend a bit of time on it cos we do tend to get frustrated cos we can’t get back  but never thought of Loot, maybe we’ll put a free advert on it.
PL: Well maybe we should sum up, I’ll just come off-line - so what do you think?
G: Well it’s good to see someone who’s able to know enough of the way round it to actually get some benefit from it. You know we can see there’s a benefit in having access to it but we’ve not been successful enough in the past in actually finding.. having said that we didn’t find the shoes but maybe that company doesn’t advertise on the Web.
END OF TAPE.




Ut31

User trial 31, 27.7.99, C2DE couple male aged 36-55, High IT


PL: OK (.) alright can we just say our names again I’m Pete
D: D
J: J
PL: Hi, OK well I’d like to just start by talking to you about the experiences that you’ve had with computing, what you use computing for and how much you know about it, where you use them and what you use them for, all that sort of stuff.  Do you want to start?
J: Right, um I’ve used them at work where you put the information at an office in E
PL: Right
J: So we put the information, from that it’s stored, indexed and we can print off certificates from that
PL: Right
J: We use the W pay for correspondence and we’ve got a computer and I use Excel here for doing various things that I have to do for work
PL: Right, right
J: And I’ve got an RSA in computer literacy
PL: OK.  What’s an RSA?
J: The Royal Society of Arts [laughs]
PL: [laughs]
J: It’s computer literacy and information technology
PL: Why did you do that?
J: Just to find my way round the computer basically
PL: Yeah, yeah
J: And save time
PL: Yeah, yeah, OK.  And what about the Internet?
J: Well I use it here, with the one I’ve got here
PL: What’ve got here, you’ve got a
D: Just a lap-top (…) The um as far as the computer is concerned I suppose I’m one of the many that use it more as a word processor than anything else and it err just a case of convenience more than I suppose using the computer um and then recently, the last year, doing more on e-mail
PL: Hm, Hm
D: Principally all my work is overseas, I work supplying equipment to XY 
PL: Right
D: So therefore the, I’m dealing primarily with companies in Scandinavia, mainland Europe and America and so the e-mail is getting more and more important
PL: Yeah
D: Plus I also use the general Internet for getting a bit of information on companies and products but err again I find its somewhat laborious and in the end you can find you’ve been sitting there for half an hour and come out with less information that you started off with
PL: Right
D: And it err, but again it’s probably to a lot it is quite fun but err but I haven’t got used to just sitting there for hours and hours on end just to find out that this is the fun bit.  But generally I’m not on the computing side um I would gladly admit that I’m the world’s worse at finding my way around it, a file will probably be there somewhere but I’ve lost it or a folder’s lost and I usually ring up a good friend of mine and say ‘help’ and he’ll tell me down the telephone line which way to go
PL: Right
D: But no just generally um (…) I’ve said it before with regards to even taking things like a typing course just to make myself more proficient on it, but generally its um, J will say how often the times I’ve worked late into the hours at night which probably will only take a proficient person an hour to do
PL: Sure
D: It’s taken me four or five hours to do because of just the speed of the way I work
PL: Right
D: So um, just err a general limited knowledge
PL: What do you think about the Internet?  You’ve both sort of had a go of it here
J: It’s like, I mean I think once you do get on it you’re on it longer than what you think um because one thing seems to lead to another
PL: Right
J: You go onto one thing then little bits come up and you think I’ll go into that one and see what that’s doing
PL: Right
J: So, I have spates when I go on it and if I’m looking for something specific then I get side-tracked
PL: Right [laughs]
J: [laughs] So, I do go on it, I don’t go on it often but 
D: And when you do it’s usually for (…).  I think it’s um (…) lap-top I suppose if I probably had the ISDN line connections and everything else where the information is coming down to us as quickly and all that sort of, and probably a PC rather than the lap-top I probably would use it more.  In fact we’re aiming to move later on this year so the next house a PC will be there as well but um it will probably all be a case of sitting there finding out a lot more information.  To be honest the same is like computer games, I can see kids sitting on it for hours and hours on end and that’s why they all look so pale and (…) it’s because um and they can’t talk and it’s because that’s what they tend to do
PL: Do you think their parents let them sit too much?
D: I think a lot of the time it’s the fact that the kids are out of the way, they’re not making any noise, they’re not disturbing us, till they get the phone bill in and um so um no um yeah, I think a lot of the times with videos, computers the same, they’ll end up with square eyes.  A lot of that is down to the fact that a lot of areas haven’t got the green fields for the kids to go and play in and it’s not safe for them to be out there by themselves, nine times out of ten in any case, so
J: The Internet is though probably useful if they’re doing projects at school I can imagine
D: Yeah, I think it’s slightly calculated now how, people even exist go to a shop assistant who is under 30 they can’t add up in the brain everything has to be done on the till, if it’s only ten and ten let’s add up on the till or whatever or a calculator and I think that’s where technology, it’s good in many circumstances but it’s defeating the object half the time, but haven’t got to exercise the brain that much
PL: Right
D: Um and then I think the, just so generally with the computer it can overtake your life
PL: On the other hand the Internet can be mind expanding can’t it?
J: True
D: Oh yeah but it’s swings in roundabouts to be honest and I think it’s all about time, whether you’ve got the time or want to spend the time looking at it
PL: Right
D: I think the, to be quite honest when you hear people like during the, I know you were talking about the shopping element but the way when people send their order to Sainsbury’s or Tesco’s because they haven’t got the time to go shopping, now they lead a very sad life
J: No they don’t
D: To me [laughs]
J: [laughs]
D: It’s the  fact that if they can’t take time out to go and do some shopping
J: [laughs]
PL: I think you can see the point
J: Yeah I can
D: That’s why I get sent to do the shopping
J: [laughs]
PL: [laughs]
D: But err, but no I think it’s the whole thing about shopping or, it’s both an experience and education, but I just don’t believe anybody hasn’t got the time to go shopping for food
J: It doesn’t mean, it’s just what your priorities are
D: I know what it means what yours are [laughs]
J: [laughs]
D: But we won’t discuss that [laughs]
J: [laughs]
PL: Well, I suppose that’s right you’re talking about supermarket shopping but there are other kinds of shopping, you won’t get into that with me.  Have you heard about the ‘freeserve’, getting the Internet for free and phone calls
D: I’m still trying to work out how they make the money to be honest, how they can value a company at £1.9 and say it’s free.  Um yeah, basically I’ve heard about it and I assume probably um the next computer will end up with a free service with it, either BT or whether it’s Dixon’s ‘freeserve’ or whoever’s going to add onto it.  I think Manchester United launched one this weekend didn’t they?  But to be honest how do they make, I presume it’s with advertising, is it?  I don’t know.  How do they make the money?
PL: I don’t know their accounts but yeah they have advertising
D: Because the fact that, they’re bound to go public aren’t they, ‘freeserve’?
PL: Yes they are
D: They’re valuing it at £1.9
PL: That’s right
D: How do you put a value on it when it’s free?
PL: Well, I don’t know, I mean how do you value new technology companies, they’re a lot about promise I suppose and about potential
D: Yeah but how, yeah but if they make it free where’s the, where they, where’s the income
PL: Well the free service is a very stripped service
D: Right
PL: So some of them are going to operate dual services I think
D: Right
PL: So the free service will be a taster and if just want to go on if you’ve got a very specific thing in mind 
D: Yeah
PL: But the visual presentation isn’t as good 
D: Isn’t as good, right
PL: And err it’s sort of half the screen and it’s not so easy to read and it’s slower
D: Yeah, right
PL: So there are (…)
D: (…) yeah, because there’s another one, in the paper I think it was last week’s Tindy or somebody, so actually if you sign up for 12 months of telephone service with them they give you a free PC
PL: Yeah, yeah that’s the other cost isn’t it the telephone line I think that’s going to be the next thing to be hit
D: Yeah
PL: Then the service will provide you with free phone calls
D: Yeah (.) because when they were saying with the, we got the second line purely for the Internet or the e-mail site and um basically I’m surprised the amount I do use it how little it does cost
PL: Um, um
D: And um sometimes there’s quite a few e-mails going backwards and forwards, it’s always primarily to the States
PL: I suppose yes, but your only paying for the local rates
D: Your paying for a local call, yeah, yeah, 10p or whatever it is
PL: And the competition in prices I suppose the phone prices have come down for the actual time that you’re on
D: Yeah, yeah
PL: I mean there is this idea that if we could free up the cost of the phone calls that would like be the equivalent of building roads for the new society, this is the new way of communicating, so may be if we could have free phone calls that would stimulate interest.  Do you think that’s right, if they could get more people on?
D: Um, at the end of the day how many more people want to be on it um if life is going to be lived totally by say Internet shopping and the like um then everybody, then basically every time you move or every house would be kitted out wouldn’t it?
PL: Um
D: Um you buy a house and if it’s say the old Barratt you buy a house and there’s a washing machine and a fridge and freezer all that lot plus a computer with the Internet on it, direct line to your local Asda or Sainsbury’s store or whatever and to do your home shopping at Next and Marks & Spencer’s and who knows
J: I think it will be as popular as the telephone is, every house has a phone
PL: Eventually
D: The same as like the VCR, you’ve got to have a video player, you haven’t go a video player you’re sort of nobody 
PL: Well, in some countries their VCR is a lot less, that’s not like the telephone.  Television and certainly telephone are widespread
D: Yeah (…) um and games for instance, you always think America’s so far advanced than we are, then you can look at their adverts on television and go ‘urgh’ [laughs] you produce that or
PL: They’re ahead of us in terms of Internet access though
D: Yeah, oh yeah I’m saying that in some things they are way in front of us but on the other side of the coin you think where are they, they’re still in the fifties
PL: See one argument is that that is a real problem because that’s the way the world’s economy is going, with America and Japan in the lead so it’s going to be technologically based, global economy, so to get in touch with that we, as a country, need to develop this, these services and these interests.  Our companies need to get involved and do you think that’s right?  Is it inevitable?
D: I think we’re having enough problems trying to understand the millennium aren’t we, a lot of the companies.  I think the, certainly I think with just generally if you look from everything from a media point of view um where you can get say your brochure from a Company either on a piece of paper or a CD ROM or on the Internet um you, other people just, I think it depends on how much money your company has spent on their promotional literature or promotional ways um and again how do they foresee their potential clientele being able to read um what they have on offer.  There’s no point, say, putting it on Internet if 99% of people don’t have that facility
PL: Right
D: Um I err to be honest I must say there’s a number of companies who’ve got their pages on the Web but I’ve never looked at them and I know a lot of people say, for instance. I’ll say to them ‘oh, we haven’t got a brochure, you will find us on the Web, have you got Internet’ um and then, even like this morning I was trying to find out some ferry fares from PNO and I thought well I’ll start off on the Web
PL: Yeah
D: I couldn’t download it, because the server couldn’t connect whatever, and I had the same with Air France last week, couldn’t connect um there’s so many time you get that 
PL; Um
D: So it defeats the object of the exercise coz next thing is you pick up the telephone and ring them up
PL: Sure
D: Or um, but um, but no I think the, in general I would say a lot of our bigger companies who have to have a sort of public appearance ie with brochures or with product promotion have gone on the Internet but again do they actually monitor the amount times it gets seen
PL: Well they do, they do measure the number of hits they get, but maybe that’s not necessarily, we you were suggesting their primary reason for being on.  I mean if you’re large company (…) visibility you’ve got to do it really
D: Yeah (…) or if somebody in the media department’s thinking well we’ll just spend a bit more money here and go to MD and saying well we need another couple of mill’ just to get the pace up and running.  I think there was another one in the paper at the weekend where, what the hell does the guy do, what was he selling, and he’d been, he basically hadn’t proceeded with doing the web page because he’d quoted between £33, 000 and £35,000 to design it
PL: Hm
D: And so he wasn’t quite sure [laughs] but there’s a bit of a difference there um which way to go and he decided not to do it at all
PL: Right
D: Um but
PL: People are making money designing web pages at the moment, yeah, but I suppose there’s still a short supply of designers 
D: I think yeah, I think there is a company I worked with until the end of last year, one of the girls there, her boyfriend was a, basically a web page designer and err he’s being paid a fortune by Lloyds bank to design and his job was finishing with Lloyds and he just had the pick of the bunch.  In fact he turned down a job for £60,000 because he knew he could get one higher than that, he went on the dole for a month because he knew he was going to get a job higher
PL: That’s not bad [laughs]
D: [laughs] Well it isn’t is it really, if you know you are a specialist (…)
PL: Oh yeah, (…) I suppose.  You were talking about it at work, use at work, what do you think of this cross-over?  I mean in a sense the computer coming into the home, I mean I think originally it was predominately a work instrument really that made work more efficient in various ways.  But this sort of new wave of PCs seem to be coming more into the home
J: I think probably in schools and
D: (…)
J: Further Education it is vital because a woman  at work her son’s in Sixth Form she’s bought him a computer with the encyclopaedia on there and everything and she was saying that even when he was a fifth former that, or whatever it is called these days, all their work was expected to be done on a computer
PL: Right
J: So the expectation is there and it’s a case then if you, if you haven’t one and your friends have 
PL: Right
J: Um it’s back to the television you know, its people under pressure really it’s expected that you have one
D: I think then the problem is, and dependent I suppose, probably depending on a certain degree on where you’re education, but the, you can tell the age of the person who writes how old they are, just by seeing their writing because nine time out of ten they don’t have to write so much
J: But then I don’t think it’s about, you’re just going do we have to be able to write if you’ve got something that can do it for you, if you’re disabled you cannot write so 
D: Yeah, yeah, I would never say, I think it’s, to be honest the electronic age has taken over too much in, I can understand it in business, in the efficiencies of business, agree with it totally, but when you drop it further and further down, at the end of the day everything is going out of the door with regards to having to think, to do much, as long as your finger works and pressing the right button or the right key you’re going to get somewhere, or you can read the screen or whatever, means you don’t to be able to write, and I think the, when you do see people writing the people now under 25 have a very, very hard time writing, majority of people because they don’t write so much
J: But does it matter?
D: It does to me
J: [laughs]
D: Even a guy in Norway last year, he said, I ordered him a Christmas card on the computer and there was, I think he was actually, he sits there and thought about it and said probably the last time I wrote was about a year ago and that to me is wrong
PL: Why?
J: I don’t agree with you
D: Principally because I think he should still be able to write um, but that’s part of life that say perhaps I’m old, old before my time I don’t know
PL: Well I think you’re right that there are these generational shifts so that if you grow up with all this stuff you just, you don’t notice, it’s not something, it’s not like you’re missing something
D: The thing is, the thing is I’ll always say the, one of my first jobs when I was out in Saudi Arabia and there at that time they didn’t have western television, of course there’s no bars, cinemas or anything else like that to go to, so you either had to, either you read or you were having a conversation and now that, a lot of times it doesn’t work, where is it.  I think like for instance in, certainly in Scandinavia, they tend to be more family orientated than we do over here and I think that shows a lot of the time, where there’s the family are more working together than anything else and just think overall those sort of things, that comes through in the children and I think at the end of the day if somebody just gets out of the pram and starts pushing button for the rest of their lives err I suppose if they can get away with it, they’ll get away with it
PL: I see your point, but the Scandinavian countries have the highest density of say Internet, like Finland for instance
D: Yeah, yeah, they’ve got that but again I suppose at the end of the day they’ve got area country the same size as England with what, a seventh of the population in it and err so there’s a lot more country pursuits, like for instance um say when I go to Gothenburg and places like that um there’s all the running tracks are marked out in the woods, there’s skiing things, there’s places, for every ten building you’ve got a swimming pool or whatever um there’s all those facilities and that still encourages the youngsters to be out there.  Whereas here because the densely populated places we are um and like they’re talking about this new bridge being built over Mile End Road with a park on the top, ‘at least we’ve got some grass coming out there’ one woman says because it’s so densely populated and I think it’s those sort of things, those areas of quality of life, that’s why people want to move up, for instance, if you go down to Cornwall etc every day it’s advertised on the radio now ‘move to Devon, move your business to Devon’ etc um why do you want (…) again there’s been fifteen, twenty mile queues around the A4 and M4 because one car broke down um what’s that car broken down, what’s that done to someone’s business, because it’s lost someone a fortune on that situation but if he had a mobile phone he might have saved the day [laughs].  But err no it just, probably going on through it too much there, but my point of view is that frankly, that I just think overall, with all the electronic gadgetentry that’s now available from anybody who’s from two years upwards can understand how to turn a switch on and off um it’s too much.  I wouldn’t certainly want to go shopping on the Internet
PL: Well I don’t know [laughs] let talk about that
D: [laughs]
J: [laughs]
PL: Yeah, I mean I think that’s right, I think, I mean the issue of what the impact of what technology is going to have in different countries and on different ages is a, is a complex one and it is an interesting concern.  What about the shopping though, what have you heard about Internet shopping?
D: (…)
J: (…)
D: You do it
PL: Oh, OK
J: I haven’t actually purchased anything
D: You did didn’t you (…) shop
J: I didn’t actually buy anything
D: You bought yourself (…)
J: (…)
D: You did, yeah
J: Did I?
D: Yonks ago, a year ago, eighteen months ago
J: I’ve bought once, but like Principles, I think you might be sitting on a catalogue, I went through that the other day, the other weekend [laughs] and, but the thing can be just as slow, so slow to get the pictures up
PL: Yeah, yeah
J: That’s the problem, but I have sort of, I think in one of the Sunday papers it said that new shopping thing was opening, I think July the first. I forget what it’s address was, where you could get like designer stuff over here rather than from the States
PL: Oh right, right
J: But um a cheaper price
PL: Right, right (.) so you’d be tempted to look at that?
J: Yeah, yeah and then from I think I got a, because it gave you about three or four addresses to look at anyway which were based in the States which I had a look at
PL: So that would be one use sort (…)
D: And then she’d probably need me around to collect packages
J: [laughs]
D: [laughs]
PL: [laughs] Yes the mail
J: [laughs]
PL: Do you see it like as an extension of the catalogue?
J: Yeah
PL: I think the catalogue companies are quite interested in watching it carefully
J: Because the thing is like with um, just the Principles and what-have-you chain stores where you’ve got Enfield which can’t carry the range at least you can see the rest of the range um on there
PL: Yeah.  One idea people were toying with at one point was to have, to make the shops electronic, so like Principles in Enfield could have a kiosk in it with a (…) you wouldn’t have the difficulties of the slowness of your own computer and having to pay the phone call.  But that idea sort of gone off the agenda somehow although the new Nike shop apparently down in Oxford Street
D: Oxford Street
PL: is doing that
J: Yeah
PL: But that that’s another possibility to mix up (…)
D: There’s quite a few people doing that or contemplating that coz I’m doing some work with um a company which provides a lot of the equipment for the electronic types of sales etc and err and I know they’re looking at, there’s one organiser she’s looking at doing (…) kiosks in the shops and they just, I think it’s again I think Virgin Net are going to do something as well with kiosks and there’s also one of the book people.  So it might come back on the agenda again.  Yeah, again it’s having the facility of um again it’s designing the whole package in and I think it’s, at the end of the day, it’s the, if all of a sudden, which I think it was Amazon the book people that are on the Net and their business has exploded hasn’t it
PL: Yeah
D: With regards to people going on and it’s then having the stock available, more than anything else and the facilities and whatever to actually be able to manage.  I think with the, certainly on the clothing side you’re more apprehensive because will the size fit and then you’ve got the aggravation of getting it all, returning and all these sorts of things, whereas
PL: Although that’s a similar thing with the catalogues isn’t it and that’s
J: Yeah
D: Yeah, yeah, but as I say it’s having all that, say for instance right with the, you have the Next catalogue don’t you? 
J: Hm
D: And that’s pretty good service, the local person, the distributor has whatever, but err, but I can um, I can see um the fors and againsts for it again, probably say that when we get the computer in and the RSD I’ll be on there all say ordering and all of sudden my pack of cards going a bit wobbly and [laughs] (…)
J: [laughs]
D: But that’s the problem in America isn’t it, is with the auctions some kid bought into a million dollars worth of debt because he bought this house
PL: [laughs]
D: On an auction on the screen (.) poor kid [laughs]
PL: His parents might have found a way out of that, authenticating as a buyer.  Yeah OK, um well we could look at some sites um what shall we do we could do it on my computer or
J: Is yours quicker?
PL: It might be (…) (5.0)
PL: Right, have we got a phone socket? (…) (3.0)
PL: You’ve got two lines (8.0)
J: I’m amazed how many people look up the registration service on the Internet
PL: Do they get quite a lot of hits on that site?
J: Yeah because they don’t, because we’re not on there um they come back with all the information, how to do things
PL: Right
D: I think this one’s going to be easiest, have you got your connection?
PL: I mean that’s the other side of it, that you were saying about how you sort of looked at sites but not actually purchased much online, the other side of it is for information and services that its good for.  Because, yeah for services like that it’s sort of getting, having the information available and it’s an easier way to (…) the information without having to actually provide it for them
J: It’s outside office hours as well 
PL: Exactly, for their convenience they can just get it
J: Yeah
PL: I mean from the, in terms of government you can see the advantage there (.)
J: They’re even, the registration services are being reviewed at the moment and they’re even talking about, they’ve gone to different countries to see how they do it
PL: Yeah
J: Um and even the outbacks of Australia they register their births only on the Internet
PL: Really
J: Yeah
PL: That’s amazing
J: I don’t know how accurate they are but
PL: They’re already doing it?
J: But yeah [laughs] they’ll get some dodgy births but I suppose if it is in the outback it won’t really matter
PL: Oh right, so that’s not actually completed by someone from the  office
J: No
PL: It’s just self-completion?
J: Yeah
PL: That’s interesting.  How would they validate that?
J: Well, unless there’s some record say from the midwife or whatever that actually gets there first and then the two match up a (…)
PL: That’s fine (4.0) [laughs]
J: [laughs]
D: [laughs]
PL: Open twenty-four hours a day I’m afraid
J: At least the Internet doesn’t make a noise when it coming through (9.0)
D: See that thing, that’s Mile End, I’ve found water, Peckham water, you know like Del Boy and his Peckham water in ‘Only Fools and Horses’ we’ve found some spa water under Mile End so we can actually bottle it, sell it to actually pay for the park, the upkeep of the park
PL: (…)
D: You what?
J: He’ll going to look out for it when he goes shopping [laughs]
PL: [laughs] So you do the supermarket shopping
J: He does now
D: (…) [computer noise]
PL: Alright I’ve got all these (…) things on there (2.0) they take so long to load up these days
D: There’s so much information going into it
PL: So much
D: Yeah (2.0) what?
J: [laughs]
PL: Alright um let me think (.) let’s try this one first (3.0)
[computer noise]
D: (…)
PL: I’m just logging onto my university computer (6.0)
D: (…) (.)
PL: [laughs] ‘The computer your dialling does not respond to network request’ (.) it looks like there’s a problem with that, I’ll tell you what I’ll try one more time (3.0)
D: (…) [laughs]
J: [laughs]
PL: [laughs] I’ll try compuserve (.)
[computer ‘welcome to compuserve’]
PL: Right (.) where (.) right, OK, well here we are we’ve got some sites here, what do you want to have a look at?  There’s Amazon, you were talking about that 
D: Yeah
PL: Shall we check that one?
D: Yeah
PL: Have you looked at this site before?
D: Yeah (.)
PL: Now it’s dialling compuserve (.) I hope (.) This is what you mean about the time it takes
[computer dialling]
J: (…) you don’t know
PL: Oh, what, what there’s no volume on there
D: It’s got volume (…) all that screeching noise
PL: That’s right you can turn it off, I usually have it turned off
J: Would it make that noise then?
D: Probably some where en route, would you like to hear that noise every time?
J: No, no
PL: No, I usually have it turned off actually, it just says ‘dialling’ but doesn’t make that noise
[computer ‘you have new mail waiting’]
PL: I don’t want to read my mail now (2.0) right, here we go, yeah (2.0) here we go.  So this is Amazon dot com bookstore, online bookstore and this is, what do you think of the presentation? (.)
D: I don’t want to read it all um (.) may be you can pick the things that (…) if you look what particular interest you are looking for books, for say, it says there for travel or if your looking for business
PL: Right
D: or say sociology, psychology or whatever the various sections are (…) um which it looks like you can do from the site, site listings
PL: Yeah, it’s the different categories to use
D: Yeah, yeah
J: Yeah
PL: You can go into them
D: I think it’s err (.) really I think to a degree you will say with general books you’d probably say we’re looking for the latest John Grisham or someone like that you’d pick it up straight away
PL: Right
D: You’d know what you’re looking for, um
PL: But you can, you can search the search here
D: Yeah, whereas um say for instance you might always read the latest say Jeffrey Archer novel or something like that, but I think of you were going to look for, say if you’re looking for a new general title, general book to read
PL: Right
D: Then you’d go to the bookshop and have a browse 
PL: Right
D: And then if you’ve got the time um then I suppose that the next day you’d go onto the Net and see how much it’s going to cost you
PL: Right
D: If it’s any cheaper there than
PL: Right
D: Where, if you say for instance you can go on your holiday to Cornwall and you wanted to find a tourist information book on Cornwall then you’d be more specific
PL: Yeah right
J: Does it sort of give you, if you go down to it, does it give you a err idea of what the book’s about
PL: Yes, there’s a um (.) a (.) an, yeah
J: Right
PL: What they do when you go to a specific book to get information about the book including reviews of it (.) 
J: That’s interesting
PL: Oh so Raj Pasoe has (.) written a review of this (.) this is the English site of (…) (.)
J: So does it give you like the top ten of?
PL: Yeah
D: The thing is once you’ve started using it, the same site, you tend to get used to it on and then you just go straight to what you want doesn’t it ie so if you want the top ten best sellers you just go to the top ten best sellers or um
J: So is that an extract is it?
PL: Um I think this is this review by
J: Oh right
PL: That’s quite a long review
J: Yeah
PL: So that’s quite a detailed review that you get there
J: Yeah
PL: They also have like reader’s reviews, you can send in reviews on books and they post them in the sites 
D: That’s what they meant by talking books that is
J: [laugh]
D: [laughs]
PL: And then you can find out about the other links like I don’t know where this one’s going to go, that’s the book (.) (…)
D: How do you order from there?
PL: You add it to your shopping basket, like that
D: Yeah
PL: And then you’ve got your items here (.) and to order you proceed to check out (.) and here’s all the stuff about security 
J: Um
D: Yeah
PL: Do you think that’s an issue with security?
J: Um
D: Yeah, with I think, with certainly with some, the way people’s brains are working these days um anyway of getting access to somebody else’s money (.) they’ll find a way round doing it
PL: Well this is the guarantee they’re giving, that in crypts
J: Yeah
PL: And if you, if it’s unauthorised (.) so you, your covered by your credit card is what they’re saying?
D: Um
J: And if you (…)
PL: Then they’ll cover you if they don’t
D: (…) onus on the credit card people as well aren’t they really, doing it that way
PL: Yes, that’s right 
D: At the end of the day if somebody goes and claims against the credit card company the credit card company are not going to be too pleased
PL: I think that’s right, if it happened I think the credit card companies would, would you know, would challenge this, if one particular site kept leaking the credit card numbers
D: Even just on my own credit card 15 months back there was had um three hundred and twenty three pound petrol bill from Bootle, I’ve never been to Bootle in my life and then a car appears from Bootle as well and the credit card company, it took them a long while to sort it out, they kept challenging me and I said how did I get three hundred and twenty three quid’s worth of petrol in a Vauxhall Vetra [laughs] it’s got be a bloody great big forty ton truck um that’s got to be fullied up whatever, but um but how they, how anybody got hold of my credit card, who knows (.) Somebody’s copied it somewhere and I think the, I think the little things like when they say, don’t use your mobile phone at an airport because people can easily get hold of your airwaves numbers or whatever and how, it’s amazing [laughs]
PL: Do you think the jury’s still out on this, in terms of the Internet and whether this incryption is secure?
D: Yeah
PL: And um there’s not been a lot of credit card fraud reported yet, but on the other hand there isn’t that much
D: (…)
PL: Yeah right
PL: I think that it’s sort of slightly different if you’re buying say fifty quids worth of books then all of a sudden if you’re going to spend or start buying say a car on there or a house on there then it all gets a bit
PL: Right
D: A bit dangerous
PL: Right, right (.) well I think that there are some products that have been sold more online than others at the moment, the books, the CDs, software are at the top I think (.)
D: Yeah it’s probably a lot of that has got to with the fact that it’s probably the younger people
PL: Yeah
D: buying
PL: Right
D: Like for instance the um I think um (…) somebody was having a go at their employees about the amount of time they were on the Internet wasn’t it?
J: Yeah
D: All searching the rugby the other week
PL: That’s right, somebody was fired wasn’t they for being online the whole time (.) we’ll try ‘CD Now’ now
D: Have you been to this um the new Internet café thing the Easynet, you now the guy’s that got Easyjet
PL: Yes
D: (…) owns a café 44 (…)
PL: That’s right, that’s right (.) OK this is um ‘CD Now’ by Amazon, but music um
D: Can you hear what you’re going to buy?
PL: You can actually, yeah.  Who shall we listen to?
D: (…) [laughs]
J: [laughs]
PL: Oh well I’ll show it you and see what you think
D: Right, Cher
PL How do you spell that?
D: C-H-E-R
J: C-H-E-R (.) C-H (2.0)
PL: It shows you how much I know about it (.) Cher (.) so there we are, any particular album? (3.0)
D: Greatest Hits (4.0) Is that $2 cheaper?
PL: Yeah, so here’s the tracks and so now you can hear some of these, have you got a favourite here
D: Just play any one (.)
PL: I don’t know one, we’ll play that one
J: ‘Gypsies, Tramps and Thieves’
PL: There we are (.) so that’s going and getting it now
[music]
D: This is when you have you’re loud speakers clicked on to your target
PL: Yeah, these have just got little tiny ones here, but you can, and that’s playing in mono, you can actually, you can actually download a stereo version if you pay a little bit for this programme (.) I suppose they’re trying to get over there this issue that this is all just listed information and trying to make the product
D: Yeah, it’s as though you’re in the shop isn’t it
PL: Right
D: As though you’ve got your headphones and listening it 
J: Um
PL: Yeah although they tend to only have those little clips like that, twenty seconds long because they’re worried about people downloading it
D: So this Nike town, there’s, Nike have got a
PL: Where’s that?
D: No it’s not a record, it’s a clothing shop
PL: Oh right, let’s have a look shall we and see
D: See what J can buy
J: [laughs] (.)
PL: Alright, let’s see if I can find them (7.0)
D: What’ve you bought? [laughs]
PL: Nothing (.)
D: Every evening you go home, your wife she says ‘what’ve you bought tonight’[laughs]
J: [laughs]
D: Where were you last night she says, ‘all the stuff is being delivered tonight’
PL: Do you want to type Nike dot com there
J: It’s just Nike what?
D: Nike dot com (.) N-I-K-E dot C-O-M
J: Then I enter?
D: Enter (4.0)
PL: So is this a bit faster than you’re computer or is, is about the same
J: Very, much faster
PL: Oh, right
D: It’s me, it’s just that I get slowed down
PL: You can play it without the picture (.) it give you the text and that’s much quicker
D: Yeah
J: Not when you’re shopping for clothes though [laughs]
PL: No
J: [laughs]
PL: That was, you were saying about it reducing communication, I mean one argument against that is that it involves people in communicating, like here they e-mail the team
J: Um
D: Oh yeah, I think it’s um as though the team are going to pick it up [laughs] are they interested? 
PL: Well yeah
D: Is Mr Bergkamp interested that you’re actually going to send him an e-mail wishing good luck on Saturday? (.)
PL: Probably not
D: No (.) for ten million dollars he’ll do it, he’ll listen to you
PL: Thanks we get the message (…) [laughs]
J: [laughs]
PL: So here we can pick a sports category.  What do you think of this site?  It’s rather different to the Amazon dot one
J: It’s really clear
PL: It’s clearer isn’t it, yeah
D: That is the one about say with the P&O this morning it was clear, it was clear but the server just won’t connect to anybody
PL: Ok so they’re different Nike sites, there’s the posters, this is like a sort of 
D: A general
PL: Yeah, a general one
D: (…)
J: (…)
PL: Do you want to do that one?
D: Yeah Nike Town, that’s the shop, it should be (2.0).  Are they going to employ 150 people in that shop?
PL: Here we are (2.0)
D: It’s the same (…)
PL: Yeah it is (.)  Have you been to this store yet?
D: No, I’ve been to the one in the one in the States.  It only opened this week isn’t it?
PL: Yeah, just opened
D: I usually end up standing in the shop on the mobile phone talking to my wife saying what do you want, does this size fit, what colour (.) someone’s always looking at me saying ‘what the hell is he talking about’
PL: Here we are, it’s not got London on here yet, oh yes here it is (.) 360 degree multi-media projection screen (.) here’s the dramatic centre piece,, I must go and see this 
D: It’s on the corner of Oxford Circus isn’t it
PL: Yeah
J: What was there before it?
PL: What was there before
D: It wasn’t a Dorothy Perkins was it (.)
PL: No
J: Which bit of Oxford Circus
D: Topshop, it’s on the Regents, on the BBC side 
PL: Hennes, opposite Hennes, yeah on the, yeah is it Hennes yeah
J: Yeah
PL: Hennes on the side it’s opposite that, what was that before?
J: Was it Topshop?
PL: No coz Topshop are they were, they are there now aren’t they, yeah.  So here it is, so this is what we were saying about mixing up the new media with the shopping experience (2.0) OK (.) amazing.  So this is information about the shop (…) 
D: Because my friend’s bought this Ipex interactive system where you can do the 360 degree picture
PL: Uh huh
D: Move it round on the screen so if you, the stuff there’s a couple of the estate agents who’ve got now a number of their houses on the sites, so you can actually look round the complete rooms
PL: Oh yeah, very good
D: to see what the house is like.  Like when Renault have got them for their cars, look round your Renault Lagoon (.)
PL: Yeah [laughs]
D: (…)
PL: Well this isn’t giving us the products is it.  How do you think we get the products?
J: I think you get it from when you, the top the top one (3.0)
PL: I’m doing this the wrong way aren’t I (.) Oh no, they haven’t got it so you can go back to the top, so where’s that (3.0)
D: (…) (2.0) I think that’s the other thing is because I think once you’ve seen somebody or a company that’s actually got a site then you get disappointed with the amount of information that they’ve usually got on it
PL: Right
D: Sort of, usually limited
PL: Well there’s a tension isn’t there between having nice sites that are good to look at and information, like the Amazon one was full of stuff, where they’ve gone for more visuals and
D: You see I think the problem with say, like with certainly on the sports websites it’s more of a fashion item
PL: Yeah right
D: Rather than actually rather than a functional item most of the time these days
PL: Um (.)
D: Nine times out of ten the err there’s a black kid wearing the sports gear he’s probably never entered a sports field in his life
PL: Sure, sure
D: Because I can’t think of what it was, was is it Reebok, on one of the business programmes a year, eighteen months ago, there was um one of the lady designers at Reebok get into a limo and drive around all the sort of rougher areas of New York and Manhattan and places like that and just get out of the car when she saw a group of black kids, get out the car with a selection of shoes and asked them what they thought, would they wear them and these kids were dressed to the nines in everyone elses fashion items and you think, well you know, so how did you afford to get that
PL: Oh yes (.)  Well I can’t see how we can get to the products here, it’s more about the companies isn’t it
D: Do you want to look at Principles?
PL: Do you want to try Principles?
J: Um, I think that’s what the thing is about it is finding your way around it and if you do get like, you know not getting what you want, you lose interest a bit
PL: Yeah
J: I think with the Amazon one it was very, very clear and straight forward as to where you were going
PL: Yes, I suppose that’s right, I think they are doing different things, I mean Amazon is just an online bookstore and that’s all, they didn’t exist before
D: UM that’s it, yeah
PL: And that’s all they’re there for, whereas Nike clearly partly see this more like as a fun place to go, the story of the company, it’s more about market
J: the story yes
D: It’s just being there rather than anything else
PL: Yeah (.) presumably, I don’t know, may be they want people to go into their stores because there’s another issue here, which is about where you’re going to get these good from, and who controls the market for the goods 
J: Um
PL: Again Amazon dot com is, you know very straight forward because
D: Warehouse
PL: They’ve got a big warehouse and they’re selling the goods so they want you to come to their site and buy on site whereas Nike or may be you’re right, entirely no interest in having everything sold on the Internet, they want people in their stores basically, I mean coz there’s that huge
D: Whether you buy either the one thing you want nine times out of ten, whereas you see something else you like impulse buying, as most of us do
PL: Right
D: On a very regular basis
PL: Right because you were saying as well about the, even for the book side of it, it was best if you knew what you wanted
D: Yeah, yeah
PL: I mean that’s one of the issues about whether there’s certain kinds of shopping you can do in a way you can like this but not others
D: It’s things just like say for instance say, with just my travelling and sort of, because it all comes out of my own pocket you tend to look for the most cost effective way of travelling and I um just, for instance with all these cheap airlines you think well who does fly in that direction rather than ring up every airport in the day or go to a travel agent whatever because I tend to use one travel agent for long haul though locally, otherwise I just buy it myself even with like Eurotunnel just ring them up direct and that’s where I sort of found out who was doing like into Oslo and or who was going to Copenhagen etc
PL: Right, right
D: Um and so I was using it as an information source rather than anything else and then although both with Ryan Air and Eurotunnel and people like that, so you book through the Internet but I don’t I just take a telephone number then ring them up
PL: Yeah, yeah
D: Because again it’s that element you’ve got a voice saying to you yes you’ve actually got a seat on that plane
PL: Right
D: Whereas (…) the other end, whether actually anybody’s dealing with it
PL: Well that’s right, although the, it’s funny isn’t it because like with some, some of the new airlines are sort of clearly set up for this in a way because they are ticket-less, you get like a letter and just go along
D: yeah, yeah
PL: And that’s all sort of somehow part of the same thing, yes, where else shall we try then?
J: I wouldn’t mind looking at a supermarket
PL: OK (.) we’ve got Tesco’s here, shall we try that one?
J: Hm (.)
PL: Did I get it, I missed it (.) back to Nike (.)
D: The thing with something like food shopping etc do you do have to be specific about what you’re buying, when you want a tin of peeled tomatoes, plum tomatoes or you can’t say to the shop assistant either or, can you?
J: I don’t know
D: [laughs]
J: I have friends that do it at Sainsury’s who say when they first started the use by date wasn’t always wanted so they now specify when they want to use
PL: Right, that’s right and you can specify delivery dates and everything
J: Yeah
PL: So they’ve got quite a lot of, they’ve built in quite a lot of control of that, that sort of stuff
D: You don’t see a little boy on a bicycle do you with a box of groceries on the front of it though (.)  
PL: How do you do this?
D: He’s going to order something is he?
J: Yeah [laughs]
D: (…) what do you want to eat tonight dear
PL: Let’s see if I can do this because I’ve been trying on my computer and I haven’t got the right software, so let’s have a look and see what’s it’s like (3.0) [laughs].  Do you read these things?
D: Read the small print, agree to spend a hundred pounds a week at Tesco’s (3.0).  So this is the registration process (3.0) clever isn’t it?
J: Hm
D: (…) use your postcode (…) hold on a minute [laughs]
PL: Yeah right so they’ve got a database (.)  Shall I try that here, see what this is like?
D: You bought a tomato so far, look
J: [laughs]
PL: [laughs]
D: (…) [laughs]
J: (…)
D: (…) (.)
PL: (…) (5.0) I don’t know where did I hear about it, I know about it because I do research for them 
J: [laughs] (2.0)
PL: I don’t want to receive anything thank you (.)
D: You’re on all GM tested food [laughs]
J: Yeah (.)
PL: Right (.) now what’s happening
D: You get the list of the third aisle now
PL: (…) I’m not (…) one or more (…) boxes correctly, I’ll highlight it with an asterix (.) it’s the same one (.) (…) the right numbers (.) but then tick (.) because that’s what you’re saying about dealing with a machine, you’ve got to do it exactly right else it um (2.0)  I don’t want to be contacted (.) so this is me registering (.) Oh
J: [laughs]
PL: That’s, have you got a pen
D: You’re just two clicks away
PL: [laughs] (.)
D: Do you want a piece of paper as well?
PL: Yes please (.) Thanks.  So that’s it, so that’s how you register
D: If you order something, within five minutes it should be here, shouldn’t it
J: [laughs]
D: [laughs]
J: What sort of levy charge is it?
PL: Five pounds
J: That’s not bad, I might do that when we go away
D: For you, for your main shop I suppose it’s alright
D: (…)
J: (…)
PL: What?  Supermarket shopping?
J: Hm
PL: Yeah (1.0)  Alright let’s see if we can see how the programme works now (2.0) (…) Oh, so now I can download that, I don’t want to do that now, because we’ll be sitting here while it downloads (.)  We want to shop, come on shop (1.0) I don’t think they’re going to let us are they
D: You’ve to download the shop haven’t you
PL: Yeah but I think you can shop online or offline, you download the product range shop offline or you can shop direct, I want to have a look to see the site, I tell you want I think we have go back into it again and start again sort of think
D: Yeah, see if you really want to register
PL: I’ve reached a sort of hitch there, we’ll try again, see if there’s, here we go, oh right so now I can 
D: Take a look, be my guest, take a look
PL: Oh that’s
D: Yeah (…)
PL: You can take a look at it, but I’ve got that far
J: You got past there
D: Fair enough
PL: They’re asking for ID now (.)
D: They’ll be all this junk mail coming through your door tomorrow
J: No he’s cancelled all that
D: [laugh]
PL: Yeah I did I said no to it [laughs] I said no to all that
D: [laughs]
J: [laughs] (1.0)
D: (…) shopping trolley stuff like that (.) in order to (…)
PL: Yeah, hey (…)
D: (…)
PL: Do they know what my home store is?
J: Hm
PL: So they’ve got information about me here as well in the background, now they can record when I do a shop now, they’ll be able to keep a record of what I but and then they’ll us that to offers to me
J: Yeah, yeah
D: Yeah, promotional bits
PL: How do you feel about that then?
J: That’s a good idea
PL: Yeah
J: That’s because if you don’t visit the store, that’s one thing I miss about shopping is not visiting and not knowing what the offers are
PL: Right, right, right
D: You can always do dear, you have the time
J: And also the new stuff that comes out
PL: Exactly so that’s, that’s right, that’s one of the things they’re trying to overcome
J: So like if you go into this week’s special offers wil you
PL: That will tell you want’s on offer this week, let’s see that and then we’ll try the product range, right there we are (.) so there’s the offers (.) chicken burgers 
J: But are there, you’ll get this regardless won’t you, would anything ever come back saying it’s out of stock, especially like their perishables?
PL: Well, now I’m online so they would tell me about stock
J: Right
PL: But If I were to download the software I would send my order in, and then you, you will, you would, they, well they check the order online and then get it sent back then
J: Right
PL: So you do that, but even so I’ve tried this service before, even so there’s sometimes stuff they find when they go to actually get the stuff from the shop and it’s run out or something and the computer’s not update
D: Yeah
PL: So there’s the odd thing, but what you can ask them to do like is you can ask them to substitute either different sizes or similar products
J: Yeah
PL: And then they have expert shoppers who go round 
J: Right
PL: And make decisions
D:  I would have said the shopping with something like this on a store situation has got to be a lot more difficult for the actual shop to manage than Amazon, the reason being is because, for instance, every bar code that’s been swiped by somebody going through the door is telling the purchasing the department they need to replace xyz stock or whatever from the food manufacturer um 
PL: Right
D: So if you then for instance if you got one end of (…) and another one’s doing an Internet site
PL: Well that’s a good point
D: Do you actually get, OK with Tesco’s it’s going back to your local store
PL: That’s right at the moment, that’s the way they do it
D: But it’s the um, it’s got to be swings and roundabouts whether they actually
PL: Well, at the moment they get around that by actually the one, the person who goes round and does the store actually checks it out at the till so that, so it fits in their stock control and
D: (…) on Friday night
J: [laughs]
PL: That’s right, that’s an issue, I think ultimately they’ll develop warehousing specifically dedicated to these services
J: Yeah, Yeah
D: Yeah, hm
PL: And they’ll have stock control built in for that
J: Yeah
PL: But there’s an issue about how they change the distribution system because at the moment it is store based organised around the product range that’s right for the store, so they’ll have to develop all that
D: Well, I suppose it’s again (…) they might say these stores have identified the shops that can actually manage twenty four hours shopping or elongated shopping hours because the market force tells them to, it’ll be quite interesting to know how many people do actually shop on the Internet with Tesco’s and Sainsbury’s
J: I think it will be a group of people that can A afford to do it, want it and may not have the time to do it, their priorities are different
PL: So you think it’s a particular type
J: It’s going to be like middle upper classes
D: Well, it’s not going to be the upper class because they’ll have staff to go out and do it
PL: Well, they’re aren’t many of those, that kind of upper class now
D: They won’t be even looking on there would they? (.)
PL: But you mean professionals, yeah
J: Yeah I do (.)
PL: Shall we look at
J: So say like with the perishables like that
D: So really what you want me to do, in the new house would be to have a computer fixed into the kitchen into the worktop so whilst you’re having your breakfast, you just browse through
J: That’s not a bad idea actually
PL: They’re working on that actually, so that you do it within the home.  I think the next generation of micro computers are going to be able to do that sort of stuff, so that you, when you eat something you scan it, before you put it in the bin and you scan it yourself in the home and put it on the list
J: That’s a good idea
PL: It’s not a bad idea is it?
J: No
PL: Because I’m always forgetting things when I go and do the shop (…)
J: D forgets the shopping list sometimes
PL: [laughs]
D: [laughs] Thanks, I’ve got other things on my mind
J: [laughs]
D: How to get out the country as quickly as I can
PL: So this is how this works now, so what did I do?  Just press something, I’ve got a certain kind of (.) sweet morning goods (.)
D: You see what I would do 
PL: What are morning goods?
D: Breakfast I suppose
J: It would stop impulse buying wouldn’t it? (.)
PL: You can’t see the products in that sense, not like walking along and seeing a think on the shelf
J: Hm, you’re being tempted yes
PL: Because that’s not very tempting [laughs]
J: No
PL: Alright, so this is what you do and then
D: Are there recipes on there
PL: You can, I don’t, yes I think they have recipes and you can say you want two of them, you can do that, you can reduce them, so I’ve five buns and now I can add that to my basket, and that’s what I’ve got in my shopping basket
J: Yeah
PL: Oops (…)
D: Where I can see similarities is that if you had a um like a breakfast bar
PL: Right
D: In your kitchen
PL: Right
D: You’d actually have a touch screen built into the end of the breakfast bar wouldn’t you
PL: Yeah
D: And they’ll be on line, we’re just going to do (…)
J: Can you do the fish please? [laughs]
PL: Yeah sure [laughs]
D: Now you’ve shown her this site well never go
PL: A fish
D: You’re going to be shopping at Tesco’s all the time now
J: See what they’ve got 
PL: (…) I’ve some visuals here now
D: (…)
J: Yeah
D: How do they credit your reward card
J: They asked if you’ve got one didn’t they?
PL: Yeah
D: Oh
PL: I think I’ll have to get one won’t I 
D: [laughs]
PL: What kind of fish do you want to look?  There’s a whole range
J: I was half expecting the whole thing to come up um
PL: These different kinds of fish
J: Um, counter white fish, the top one
PL: OK D: When you’re driving past tomorrow you’re going to pull up for petrol and you could have (…)
J: There’s no products on that one
D: They’re white fish, you can’t see them
PL: Zero products, well that’s a little snag
D A little snag
PL: What else do we want?
D: Counter fish, what’s that one?
PL: Ready to eat
J: You’d a thought at least at least haddock or cod
PL: You’d have thought so wouldn’t you, or do they, I don’t know
J: Does yours not have fish?
PL: Yes, it has a you know fishmonger, yeah, that’s very odd isn’t it, unless they’ve sold out (.) no.  Maybe they don’t sell the fish over this, that’s interesting
D: What about meat then?  Can you get into meat?  Do they do fresh meat?
PL: Yeah (.) that’s an interesting one (.) may be they don’t like doing the fish because of the delivery, whoops 
J: (…) they get salmon don’t they?
PL: Hm
D: Got the same page
PL: Here we are, what’s this (.) here we are
J: It doesn’t look like they’ve got anything [laughs]
D: Should be lamb in a field
[ringing]
PL: What’s that?  Is that your fax?
D: Hm (.)
PL: OK we’ve got something, so there it is so we can 
J: But they’re not doing it by weight are they?
PL: No (2.0) yeah, how are they doing this, item price, they’re just units aren’t they, they’re like packages
J: Hm
PL: Rather than loose
J: Yeah
PL: I understand it now (1.0) so there’s some restrictions compared to doing a shop, like the fresh stuff seems like it’s not there and you’re not buying most by the pound but the packaged stuff
J: What do they do in fruit and veg then because that’s weighed isn’t it?
PL: Yeah right (6.0)
D: What’ve you got?  A packet of meat?
PL: Well, they haven’t any English apples, that’s interesting isn’t it, ah they’ve got some granny smith
D: I reckon
PL: Oh OK
D: I think you need to go another store to 
PL: These are loose
D: (…) the one that we’re going to, is it all your store or just in general
J: No, it’s just his store
PL: It’s just the local yeah, this is currently out of stock, so that’s how much they are each (.) so you can buy on kilo
J: Yeah, because they’re (…) yeah
D: Oh, they’re pre-packaged ones are they?
PL: Oh
J: Pre-packed
PL: Yeah they’re pre-packed as well, no these are loose
J: Yeah
PL: So those are loose but you can only have them in kilogram units
J: Right, so you could put point five couldn’t you, a pound
PL: Um, it doesn’t, I wonder if it would accept point five should we try that because here it’s got it’s going in units of one
J: Oh right
PL: And one kilogram units are quite high
J: That’s two pounds isn’t it?
PL: Yeah (.) I wonder if it will accept that (.) let’s see (2.0)
J: Yeah
D: Yeah
PL: So that did accept that, so that’s got some control over that, that’s not bad (…)
D: (…)
PL: It looks like they weren’t going to give us any fresh fish
J: Yeah
D: Yeah
PL: So there’s some things they’re clearly not going to do through this service, um interesting
D: I don’t think you should have shown us this because I’m sure my wife (…)
J: (…)
D: Not bad is it (.) Alright, so that’s it how do I get, how do I get out again
J: Can you just do ‘what’s new’ as well please
PL: Oh, sorry
J: (…)
PL: Where is the ‘what’s new’
J: Above that
D: Above the end cursor
PL: Oh, that’s not within 
J: Oh, it’s nothing to do with this
PL: No, that compuserve (.) why won’t it do it (…) 
D: Being delivered to the door now
PL: [laughs]
D: Will there be anybody to pay for it (2.0)
PL: (…) done that, oh here we are, choose, right so then you can choose slot for delivery, there we are
J: Gosh (…) blimey
PL: Good isn’t (.) (…)
D: (…) [laughs]
PL: How are you going to pay, then you press that to select the payment which you’re going to do
J: A total guide price
PL: Yes, that’s how much we’ve spent so far (.) we don’t to pay (…)
J: No
PL: But that’s how it works and then you just press that and it sends the order on
D: Yeah (.) the tester is when you can go in and within two hours it’s here
PL: I don’t know what the fast delivery is like, I’m not sure, so that’s that.  Well what have we looked at, the other thing that you can do is like banking (.) online
D: To be honest though I use um (.) telephone banking and where they say you have the option where they say you’ve the option you either do it pressing, if you’ve got a press button phone or do you want to speak to an operator and I always want to speak to the operator
PL: OK
D: If I transfer my money into somebody else’s account, or it’s always that, that’s the fallible bit, sort of yeah you’re not quite sure you said the right pressed the wrong button or whatever (.)
PL: Right (1.0) OK, I should  have done that first shouldn’t I (2.0) OK great, good (.) um (3.0)
D: What’s this
PL: Stats package (2.0) OK what do you think?
J: That was excellent
D: Yeah, as I say I can see, I see benefits to the Internet and um I think it’s just a case of again it’s a lot of the time its knowing what you’re looking for 
PL: Right
D: And things I suppose with regard to something like shopping, once you know the layout of the format, you just say well I want this, this, this, this, this.  I think it’s when you probably, you look, you browsing around, you’re not quite sure what you want or whatever and then because a lot of the times the sites aren’t 100% or 110%, there’s still gaps
PL: Yeah, well that’s what we found with the fish
J: UM
D: Certainly I can say that for instance you can get that little 5 inch ouch screen and sooner or later there going to be, somebody’s going to sponsor it to go into a house aren’t they
PL: I suppose that’s right, that the services that they’re in this form now that they’re anticipating those changes, to other kinds of things that develop, so at the moment they’re very much existing shopping done online
D: Yeah
PL: But do you see them, will they, do you think they’ll change shopping in the future?
D: I think to be honest, and I think it depends in the commodity, I think there are a lot of shops, I think that certainly with say for instance it was a Comet or a Curry’s or whatever one of those could actually go on the Internet and you wouldn’t need, why do you have a row of 400 TV sets when 398 are the same and the same with washing machines and everything else like that
PL: Right
D: And I think, I think again it’s a case that it’s as much down to the facility or the space of cost for the shop to put them on show, because at the end of the day it’s (…) there’s no longer going to be any out of town shopping centres are there, Bluewater supposedly is the last one um
PL: It’s amazing, have you been there?
J: No
D: I’ve never been to Farrow, I’ve been there for work, I dropped off a (…) that was it, but um, but no just I think the, sometimes people will use the shopping centre for a day out
PL: Yes, I think that one type
D: I think there’s a problem now with children at weekends, it’s Sundays where you used to go down to the park or the boating lake or whatever and now it isn’t we’ll just go down the shopping centre and let the kids run round the shopping centre
PL: A kind of leisure
D: It’s a leisure activity isn’t it, it’s free until you start buying
PL: What about this thing about um the information they’ll about you as a consumer because at the moment you go into Tesco’s or Sainsbury’s or whatever and they don’t know who you are you’re just a customer whereas through this they’re going to get more and more knowledge about you and your quality of life
D: I think at the end of the day there are a majority of people who know exactly who are sitting on this earth in any case from the day you were born um
J: Do you think they might personalise things then, once they get to know their shopping habits?
PL: Yeah
D: Yeah, say for instance if you always pick up a jar of chilli their always going to send you a chilli menu or recipe
PL: That’s right
D: The way, say for instance it’s downloading, it’s putting on, we didn’t go into recipes did we, it probably like having Sainsbury’s, coz it’s like this Delia Smith
J: Yeah, she does some
D: She does something all of a sudden everyone just wipes everything off the shelves
PL: Well their going to be able to 
D: Yeah, and I think that sort of area, I think it’s the err, another one which I was surprised at a few months back I learnt that with meteorological office how much money they earn from the supermarkets predicting what the weather’s going to be because that’s depending on what stock they but and the everyday person wouldn’t even think that, I wouldn’t until I read it
PL: Well, that’s right personalisation of that kind where they can match up to your preferences and say (..) but there are other things that are going to develop like basically intelligent software that’s going to do things like negotiation over price, so at the moment prices are public things, anyone that’s got the money or the means to pay can go in and get the product for that price, that’s it.  What’s going to happen when personalisation really develops is if they feel you’re a valued customer in a particular area of shopping, certain goods, then they’ll make offers to you on the basis of that, so that eventually there won’t be necessarily a real price for a product it will be equal to the kind of customer you are
J: Hm
PL: So that the public nature of pricing will be replaced by 
D: Those machines, give them 10% he’s guaranteed to buy it
PL: Or eventually the companies might develop that will be able to negotiate on your behalf for a basket of goods or say to Tesco’s well look what would you charge for this and Sainsbury’s what would you charge and so on
D: That’s what basically Asda’s do now
PL: Yes, well they
D: That is what Asda do now, you walk into Asda and they say this is what our prices compared to Tesco’s and compared to Sainsbury’s, that’s the first thing they do at the front of the shop (..) they will actually
PL: Well, that’s right, the price competition
D: Well I think the person who’s going to win is the guy or the people who’ve got the next bit of marketing on the Internet and who can actually get it through the front door of so many people and err so there’s two or three like the say the Amazon people who are ready and making a lot of money
PL: What about consumer issues like consumer protests and consumer rights, so you think that’s affected at all by this, by the Internet?
D: Meaning (…) PL: Yeah, well there’s that or there’s, like consumer protests, remember there was the protest against South African foods at one point
J: Yeah, yeah
PL: Then there’s been various food crises like the beef crisis
D: I would say there’ll always be the element that are going to protest and if you’ve got the choice you’ve got the choice, you aren’t being told that you’ve got to but xyz from Tesco’s Internet site and if you don’t want to buy the beef you don’t buy it
PL: Right
J: I think about the South African things I did try and stick to it but at the end of the day, if you’ve got a limited income, then things tend to go out the window because the apple’s there is going bad are you going to buy it that sort of thing
D: I think any test is that you’ve only look at the amount of lorries which are on the road coming across the continent delivering our food in any case, 99% of our stuff comes from overseas anyway
PL: Yes that’s true
D: So there’s wagons coming all the way through the night coming into Dover with lettuces and variety of grain crops and fruits and
J: I think like with shopping like that as well I personally couldn’t tell you what a loaf of bread costs, because if you want it and it’s a staple food you just put it in the basket and same with eggs I couldn’t tell you, I suppose you become more aware of price
PL: That’s interesting when you’re doing that kind of shop you’re just yeah
J: Yeah, yeah
PL: They took the prices off the shelves and it’s just electronic labelling
J: We know roughly what we’re going to spend each week and (…)
D: [laughs]
J: When it goes up you can’t then check your shopping list to see what you bought and made it different
D: Sometimes you’ve got an empty trolley and costs you a lot of money and other times you’ve got a full load and you think that didn’t cost me much money what’ve they’ve misses
PL: Yes
D: But no, I think say you could be very exact on what sort of money you’re going to spend, you say right I’m going to spend £50 this week and I’m not going to buy anymore food and that’s it (.)
PL: yes, that’s interesting
D: I certainly can see the benefits I think certainly what I would probably do on the, until I’ve got experience on the food side I would always buy jarred stuff on the Internet rather than fresh, because you’re not quite sure, the bad end of the
J: At the end of the day the reputation is at stake, so if they give you dodgy food you won’t go back
D: Not necessarily dodgy but say a lot of the short tail of the fish rather than the long tail
J: I think I’d specify exactly what you do want (.)
PL: (…) 
J: [laughs]
D: Was there something about, I didn’t hear it this morning, what did they do, they’re doing something about shopping
PL: I don’t know I missed that
D: Something to do with the shopping channel, there was a list of all the wines they’ve stored in their Tesco’s stores (…) probably have
J: [laughs]
PL: Yeah wines are on there
D: Again I’d say, have you done that City Europe one it’s the other side, within five minutes of the train, but um, the Eurotunnel and there’s a Tesco’s store, there’s 150 shops and there’s a Tesco’s store in there that just sells wines and spirits and they, at Christmas well before Christmas in November
J: To see what the comparison is over here
PL: Right
D: There’s a queue all round the shopping centre, crazy
PL: Amazing
D: In (…) another big supermarket there and just basically, the English clear it out (.) bewildering what people do
PL: They’re going to change that, the duty on wine aren’t they
D: I don’t know, we went to France a couple of weeks ago at the Eurotunnel duty free there was just perfumes and sweets, there was no cigarettes, booze or anything (.) um but they still sell it on the ferries
PL: OK (.)  thanks very much
D: It was quite interesting actually
PL: Good
D: We’ve probably got ID numbers at Sainsbury’s, Tesco’s and Asda now have we
PL: Infra-red devices, I don’t know how to switch them off (.)
D: (…)
PL: They haven’t been sorted out yet, they take these things, the infra-red competes with the modem, right















Ut32

User trial 32, 27.7.99, C2DE single male aged 18-35, High IT

PL: Right, (…) thanks, we are talking to a lot of people about the Internet generally and particularly about the development of shopping on the Internet and what they think about that and different issues about it, and we’ll look at some websites and get your views about them in a bit
S: OK
PL: But can I just start by asking you what your experience of computers is?  I know that you’ve got a lot of experience with computers but
S: Yeah, I suppose specifically for you then, um I surf the Web quite a lot um trying to find out bits of information on various sorts of things
PL: Right, right
S: Um, and that tends to um give you links and jog your mind for looking at associated things
PL: Right
S: (…) whatever um
PL: Is there any particular thing you like to, you’re interested in, or is it anything that comes up
S: Well, yeah it’s a variable thing, um I look at um some of the things I’m interested in is signal processing
PL: Right
S: Yeah, so I’ll find things on that
PL: Right
S: (…) electronics and things that I can do
PL: Right
S: Um, so that’s what I do for that, other things that I use the Net for um is just to see what’s out there
PL: Yeah, yeah
S: You know
PL: To keep an eye on
S: To keep abreast of what’s going on
PL: Right, right
S: Um (.) I tend to, as well, use it to like (…) flights and you know to see how cheap things are because I see it as like the only, it’s one of the ways of using the Web um but like all things (…) views, you know if haven’t too much trust in it, if you haven’t got trust in the computer (…)
PL: Generally
S: Yeah, yeah, yeah um and (.) like the year 2000 is a good one [laughs] I’m not sure if you want to know all this sort of stuff
PL: No, yeah that’s fine, I’m just checking that the tape recorders are working, hang on a sec (.) yeah that’s fine, yeah, no, go on
S: Yeah
PL: So you were saying you think, you think people are too trusting of computers
S: Oh, they are too trusting, there’s too much um, I mean I used to use um for example (…) business, I use paper databases and things like that
PL: Right, right 
S: before computers came out
PL: Right
S: I know there’s a worry about the Y2K problem thinking everything’s going to fold up, you know
PL: Yeah
S: We can always go back to that
PL: Yeah
S: Maybe a bit more difficult (…) so um (.) I er, I look at the computer just in a sense that, to see how people respond to them
PL: Yeah
S: Because computers and technology (…) people I know won’t be thrown by it, but
PL: Why?
S: The people in the street
PL: Right, right
S: will go out and sort of hoard their cash and buy loads of food and stuff like this just in case, you know when you hear this (…)
PL: So you think there might be some sort of panic and reaction to that in (…)
S: There might be um I think there, there may be a few computers go down and it will get blown out, unfortunately that’s the media, the media likes sort of news like that so they will blow it out
PL: Right, right
S: Um and a few people (.) will sort of get hurt by it, but in  general it should be OK, I think
PL: Yeah, yeah
S: (…) it’s a case of what you were saying [laughs]
PL: Absolutely, yeah, I think people are, some airlines aren’t in the wrong are they? (…)
S: Yeah
PL: If they check it out
S: (…) one of the first things they would have checked up on (.) um simply because they have electronics in there (.) I mean it’s a funny thing um because I was reading, a while about three months ago now, I was looking through some of my books because I was looking to write some code because I, you now I looked at the MS DOS I got the MS DOS programme as reference and the in it is like 1980
PL: Right
S: copyright date, but looking at the date functions then, this is back in 1980, they had already sort of taken into account you know to store the date as a four digit
PL: OK
S: So, I mean this is 1980, so it makes you sort of wonder a little bit as to what is really going on, because they knew it then, you know
PL: Yeah
S: That’s strange
PL: Yeah
S: So
PL: But that’s been one of the main things that’s been publicised about computers I suppose, but on the other hand there’s a lot of positive press for computers as well isn’t there
S: Oh yeah, but the positive stuff is um, allows people to, for example shop on the Internet and thereby get things cheaper (…) and see where you can get things a lot cheaper than you could elsewhere
PL: Yeah, right
S: You know, um and (.) I suppose that’s why people will get into it, that’s why I stick with it I suppose
PL: Yeah
S: Because you can always, you don’t have to listen to what people say you can go out and 
PL: Check it out
S: Check it yourself, you know
PL: Yeah
S: Um but shopping on the Internet is quite big now, you know
PL: Right, right
S: With the information on the Net it’s all over the place and so your search engines themselves are quite slow um to pick up the data on that (.)
PL: That’s right, they’re not very sophisticated either, the search engines themselves, are they
S: Um (.) they’ve come on a bit from where they were, um the engines.  The search engines now have a bit of artificial intelligence in that you can ask them English type questions as opposed to just putting words in, you can use like ‘Ask Jeeves’ or something
PL: Yeah right
S: And put in you know a whole question and get much more information than you would with say ‘Yahoo’ or ‘Alta Vista’ or something
PL: Yeah, yeah just simple matching searches aren’t they
S: Yeah, although they do have advance searches that you can use
PL: Yes, but I don’t know if many people actually use those (…)
S: They wouldn’t use those, no, no
PL: That’s right so they get like thousands of answers
S: Yeah, yeah
PL: Would you think that’s the way forward to building more artificial intelligence?  I mean search engines that’s an obvious use
S: Well, I think so, what they’ll be doing with that um they’ll be increasing the (.) versatility of the queries that they generate, because when you put in your search (…) that corrects queries that go out and search all different databases
PL: Right
S: Um (.) now with um a lot of things that go on it, I mean the information that they’ll be using they’ll be wanting to access it’s just bound to increase
PL: Yeah
S: Um you have like the map in the sky so they will be going to want to um store their data (…) of the map
PL: Right
S: I know Microsoft are designing a database (…) magazine, and they were looking at the biggest databases, they made up some names, I can’t remember what the names were, (…) and this was another data I had to store
PL: Yeah, right
S: And if you have a large database it will take time, so you’re going to have to create new methods of searching to bring that time down, search time.  So yeah there was a big push on building databases and  storing data (…) quota, you know
PL: Yeah, yeah
S: So what will happen you’ll have all this data and someone will come along and want to ask a question that hasn’t been asked before which will look at matching lots of different things that (.) so (.)
PL: Yeah that’s interesting because also there’s more and more information they put out there isn’t there, I mean the more and more people, more and more websites developing
S: Um, um, the um (.) what is it, the US government in the Second World War had gone out to map, I think it was currents in the sea or something
PL: Right
S: And there was one hundred and eighty thousand bits of data all written down
PL: [laughs]
S: It must have been, I couldn’t believe it
PL: Yeah right
S: So um they’re looking to enter this into a database that will be searched, so there’s all this past data they’ve got out there on paper from years back that they want to put into an electronic database now
PL: Um
S: It’s just going to just balloon yeah um so what you’ll have is loads of sites of data, so some may store their data on that test database and some may use, I don’t know, some other spreadsheet or similar thing yeah
PL: Right, right
S: Um and all the data will be in different sorts of orders
PL: Right
S: For the ultimate search there’ll be one, there must now, a growth in developing versatile query languages that you can use to interrogate databases of all sorts, they must be looking to design those things if not already
PL: Yeah, yeah, right
S: So yeah there’s a lot of information out there, but once you have it then you have to use the knowledge that you get from it to make something from it
PL: That’s right
S: You know um it’s all very well being able to sort of search for anything but um you need to be quite specific as to what you want
PL: Yeah, yeah
S: Me myself, I mean I know I’m looking for either cheap flights
PL: Right
S: Yeah, or um cheap or free software
PL: Right
S: Or circuit ideas
PL: Right
S: Um so I’ve got a reasonable sort of quite distinct
PL: Yeah right
S: area of things I’m looking (…) look around in other areas um but I think even that I tend, most people will tend to narrow it down, my sort of (…) is still quite narrow even though I’d like to broaden it 
PL: That’s interesting, I mean what about, because a lot of these methods are going to be applying in the area of electronic commerce as well, they all are in the process of being developed.  What have heard about um e-commerce?
S: Um, e-commerce?  Um (.) from what I’ve heard um (.) how can you explain it, there’s a lot of it that goes on with main hurdle or the main problem was having secure methods
PL: Yeah
S: in which you can pass over security numbers and things
PL: Yeah
S: But um there’s a lot of it, I mean it’s taken up, people trade on the Internet you see, once you can trade on the Internet um you can get anybody that has a brain to do it
PL: Yeah
S: You know you’ve got all the people in the stock exchange and it’s still quite a closed chop in a sense
PL: Right
S: But um anybody can get onto the Internet now um read up, go to loads of websites read up how you do these sorts of things and start doing them themselves um so that’s what the Internet itself or the Web itself has provided.  I think it has allowed people to um (.) gain access to things that they usually wouldn’t be able to you know
PL: Right
S: Um and in a sense start to make money you know, this is where e-commerce comes into it, now that will have a knock-on effect somewhere down the line um but on the whole it will hopefully bring everyone up.  For example viruses were a big thing but that means you start having to write the programmes which were Word DOS where you have to build in um certain files or something, you’d have to increase your own um (…) you know, so there are you know sort of good and bad things and eventually everything I think will um, well should get better, it won’t necessarily will get better.  The world itself I think is all greed and money, that’s how I see it, and um the computer itself is like the gun, no it’s not like a gun, but it’s err it’s all that you can use to get better or make things better for yourself um but it’s more an individual thing
PL: Right
S: You know people sit down and they do it for themselves it’s um
PL: Right, right, yeah, yeah
S: Whereas you see all the other (…) exchange there are groups of people that come together
PL: Right
S: Yeah
PL: I think that’s right that you can do it more as an individual you don’t have to go into public places where this kind of trading goes on.  Err I suppose another side of that is that um this sort of database and techniques that you’ve talked about will also be used in trying to con us, so presumably be able to get quite a lot of data about individual shoppers
S: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
PL: So although you’ll have more access to it in a sense companies will now more about you, do you think that’s right?
S: That is, that is right um I remember when I was in my first degree we were talking about this and we were talking about information villages
PL: Yeah
S: In that you’ll have um people with the information, like the technologists and that, and they’ll be in these sort of villages that would be hemmed in with barbed wire and everyone else who didn’t have the information were on the outside
PL: Right, right
S: Um now in a sense I think in some ways that this might actually come about
PL: Right
S: Not as bad as that scenario um but its something that might happen
PL: Yeah
S: But yeah you go shopping, you go to Sainsbury’s or Tesco’s and they’ll take your switch card or whatever and they can see what items you’re buying
PL: Right, right
S: Yeah, and from that I mean you can always build a profile you go to the shop (…) food um you look at, god, how they spend their money in other areas and you can build up a profile of the alleged society as a whole, you know, um and I think when it gets to that point, I don’t think its too far down the way, I see it as being quite intrusive
PL: Yeah
S: You know it’s um it’s gone the wrong way because it comes, it feels like somebody else has got um (.) an idea of controlling people in such a way as to make money in order to make money
PL: Right, right
S: It always comes down I think to money or to control people so their not right or whatever you know
PL; Yeah
S: Um yeah, I mean the computer to my mind is a good think but you start to having to think of ways of breaking it, I mean always having to sort of having to see of how you can break a programme you know um, and I don’t like the way I can go shopping when people could collect data on me and work out something like this so you, you know, start thinking of a strategy of getting around these other things so pay for cash
PL: Right
S: But there are loads of other ways you can do it as well you know
PL: Right, right
S: Um yeah  I’m afraid that’s on the up
PL: There’s a sort of balance I mean because you’ve said that in one sense that advantages are that you can get access to goods and services that are inaccessible without the Internet, cheaper prices, so there are some advantages of that kind
S: It makes it easier, they are not necessarily inaccessible, it makes it much more easier to find things that you want rather than going through Yellow Pages or things like this you know you can ask yourself a question, you know, of where would I buy a gizmo to do xyz and you look it up on the Internet and you find something similar 
PL: Yeah, yeah
S: Um it’s (…) if you ask someone on the street and you would get a no
PL: Yeah, yeah right, right
PL: But also you can’t actually use the phone anymore because you just get put in a queuing system
PL: Yeah right
S: And that’s just and that’s just a load of rubbish [laughs]
PL: [laughs]
S: Um so yeah there are trade-offs, you know positives and negatives, but you were saying
PL: Where do you think the boundaries, do you think the boundaries are shifting?  Because like the Net used to be more of an open, democratic system, is there an argument that the character of the Net is shifting because of all this the levels of commercial involvement?
S: Yeah, um it used to be um just something that we in universities were doing 
PL: Yeah
S: Yeah, and the information that you would transfer would be raw information regarding research
PL: Right
S: So now it’s moved over into the commercial arena where it is all money, it’s all money I mean you get someone creating a website called ‘freeserve’ and start selling it, um an excellent way of (…) I mean you can get someone to start throwing all this money in this stuff and there is no basis to it, it’s gone you know, so you know you can have a collapse.  You know um it might not happen but I’d like it to happen because it’s just, I just see it again as greed you know parts of it as greed um it’s a good service, it’s a good thing to use but it has these um.  I mean the thing about the Internet um you can have God on there or you can have the devil on there
PL: Right
S: You know you can have the good and the bad, at least its an open thing
PL: Right
S: (…)
PL: Right
S: I suppose there’s an argument for controlling it but I don’t think you can control it and I wouldn’t really like it controlled
PL: Right
S: One has prejudices over say like paedophiles and things like this, you know that’s a difficult one
PL: Yeah right
S: Um yeah
PL: Yeah it is it’s tricky but I mean is this a (.) I mean you were saying you don’t think it can be controlled so it is (…) in commercial areas that there will be more trading on the Internet as time goes on
S: There will be more trading I think, I don’t think (…) I don’t think that um (.) it can be (.) I think it could be controlled but I don’t think that’s really the way to do it um in controlling it you’ll lose the freedom of the Net
PL: Right
S: In controlling it you’ll start sitting on various access rights um you can do this and that, you have to have a username and you have to sign up so with you’re name and address and all that sort of stuff and you can control it on that level um and that (…) you wouldn’t want to do that you know um (.) I can’t really remember, what was it you were going to say
PL: I can’t remember [laughs]
S: You were saying if it was controlled, if the net was controlled is this a good or bad thing, I think
PL: No I was saying do you think it’s, you were saying on the whole you can’t control it, so is it inevitable that it will you know for example in electronic commerce that they’ll be more and more commerce transacted on the Net?
S: I think it will be eventually because if you have an idea for a business
PL: Yeah
S: Yeah, you want to do it um as cheaply as possible with the um the least possible things that can go wrong so um 
PL: Hm
S: On the Net all you need to do is you buy a name somewhere and you buy some website, some web space and you know your software you know
PL: That’s it
S: Most people use a word processor and all this stuff so you can do it all on the Net, you know so it comes down to the individual having an idea
PL: Right
S: So it’s much more free whereas in the past you had to go out and rent an office space and all of that
PL: Right, right
S: Yeah, so yeah I mean the net itself can and should free up a lot of err (.) well the idea that came to mind just then was up in the North of England there are lots of properties going cheap (…)
PL: Right
S: Now these are the areas where you would move or you would develop some sort of Internet sites or business to lift the area up you know
PL: Right
S: It’s still seated in London, lots of the sort of the money is still here
PL: Hm
S: But it allows you to sort of run a business from anywhere
PL: Right
S: (…) doing their stuff having a coffee, you know, excellent um when it comes down to just being in the know about it, but that will come, that will grow
PL: I think that will spread anyway, people will become knowledgeable
S: Yeah, yeah um if only because children themselves are into it
PL: Right, right
S: You know from that point of view
PL: In the longer term
S: In the longer term um and all those who can’t (…) but if you can’t sort of get into it and then either something else will be developed for you or you may be lost
PL: Right, right
S: But on the whole it should lift everything upwards
PL: Yeah
S: I mean I don’t want it to sound you know paranoid that if you’re not technology minded that you’re going to be out of because that is not what I’m sort of saying, um I think Internet and electronics itself or the computer arena will bring everybody up 
PL: OK
S: If used properly
PL: So it has potential for general benefits
S: Yeah, yeah, but it will always come down to people, you know in the controlling sorting of um
PL: Yeah
S: The people who hold the strings, but the Net itself doesn’t have much control out there so hopefully um everybody will get a look in and there won’t be so many people pulling you back
PL: Right, right
S: I mean trying to control it, trying to find ways of breaking security codes and I mean the police want to be able to break any security codes for drugs and things like that
PL: Yeah right
S: But you can, you can (.) there are so many ways round that nobody can break codes you can build any sort of code and it ‘s just not done, well I think anyway
PL: So you think its right that its going to be this face that you can’t regulate or police
S: Yeah, yeah I think (…) simply because if you can police it then you can come down to people’s own prejudices or social prejudices, some are driven by the norm of the day, what’s the thing now, what should we do now, um you need something that is free from all that
PL: Yeah
S: In my opinion anyway
PL: OK shall we look at some sites 
S: Yeah
PL: E-commerce sites and see what we think, I tell you what I’ll move this 
S: I didn’t want to move your papers because you might have had them in order
PL: No they’re not they’re just on the floor [laughs]
S: [laughs]
PL: No particular order, that should be alright now, what have I got on here, it’s an old Windows 3.1 never mind
S: It works OK
PL: It works quite well
S: Yeah
PL: Let’s see what I have got, if I’ve got any bookmarks
S: Hm
PL: They’re not very good, we can look for some ourselves what shall we start with
S:  We can use something like ‘Alta Vista’ to search for something or um
PL: Or we could go into some sites
S: Air UK (…) but that’s just for flights
PL: Do you know Loots website have you looked at that
S: Loots yeah, yeah loot dot com yeah
PL: See what’s coming up (.) there we go
S: I tend to go to this one most days actually
PL: Oh right
S: I look for boats
PL: Oh right
S: You haven’t heard about that story
PL: No, no
S: I was going to buy a boat
PL: Oh I see
S: So I use ‘Loot’ and there’s another website called ‘Buy a Boat for under 15k’
PL: Really
S: Yeah, yeah
PL: You’ll have to show me that one
S: Alright [laughs]
PL: Have you looked at this auctions thing
S: I’ve looked at it yeah coz um
PL: Funny isn’t it
S: You can put in a bid 
PL: That’s right
S: And it comes over days because other, it will say what the least bid is or something
PL: That’s right
S: Yeah, I’ve not found it useful actually but [laughs] 
PL: I’m just wondering if there are any boats in there (.)
S: I’ll have a look, boats will come up into everything else, it will find you cars, toys (…)
PL: May be more boats
S: Oh, oh
PL: Here’s a boat
S: OID 4 metres
PL: What’s that, I don’t know what kind of boat that is
S: This is um rescue, was it, err (.) the ones with the rubber thinks on the outside
PL: I know, I know
S: It’s got a hard deck to it
PL: I know, I know, here’s a cruiser shall we have a look at that
S: OK, that will be a narrow boat
PL: Yeah, it’s 30 foot long, it like the sort of thing on the (…)
S: Well, um you see those on the canal and (…)
PL: Oh is it?
S: Um
PL: Right, so this is 7k, 7000, reserve 6,700
S: Yeah but it’s only 30 foot, it’s not a great
PL: It only had one bid
S: Oh right 
PL: (…) there it is, it’s a little one
S: Oh right it’s a cruiser, right
PL: Yeah
S: (…)
PL: It’s in Hertfordshire
S: I might actually put a bid in for it
PL: Not bad is it?
S: Yeah
PL: Where do you want to keep your boat
S: Well I’d keep it on the Leigh Canal the Leigh Navigation Canal
PL: Right yeah
S: In Hackney
PL: Yeah
S: Um because I only live across from there, but then the reason for getting a boat would be to go take it round France and places
PL: Yeah right
S: So it would go across, so that’s
PL: You can get it across the Channel in those sorts of things on a fine day can’t you?
S: Yeah, yeah, (.) you can’t do it on a narrow boat, I mean people do take narrow boats
PL: Do they?
S: Oh yeah
PL: Across the Channel
S: Yeah they tie them together
PL: Oh right
S: They tie them together to get the width you see
PL: Yeah right
S: [laughs]
PL: I was going to say in one of those things
S: [laughs]
PL: So that that’s pretty good isn’t it?
S: I might go for that actually, I’ll put a bid in
PL: [laughs] here’s a dinghy, a fishing boat
S: No, because I’m looking for something between, 32 foot is the minimum
PL: Right
S: 30 foot is OK I could cope with that, I’ve been looking at lifeboats and things like that (…) (.)
PL: What’s this?
S: I don’t know what this is
PL: Shall we check it out
S: Yeah why not (.) I use it, I get horoscopes off it as well
PL: Oh right
S: That’s another terrible thing that I read the damn horoscopes, god (.)
PL: So this is an e-mail service to keep you posted about the (…)
S: (…)
PL: That’s interesting (.)
S: There’s quite a few things you can join I mean hotmail was another one
PL: Yeah right
S: So you can use it, you can pick your mail up because you’ve got all Internet cafs around the place, so you can pick your stuff up
PL: The UK web (.) so this mixture of information and buying is what the Web is about isn’t it?
S: Hm
PL: Bookshop
S: Loads of bookshops now
PL: There are aren’t they, this is Smiths
S: That’s Smith, um (.).  At least they started out quite cheap (…)
PL: That’s right, I’ll have to get this machine upgraded
S: Well now your looking at NTL 95
PL: Right
S: Well no, you can actually run it, this is because of Netscape actually
PL: I’ve got an early version (…) yeah
S: Yeah
PL: So that’s got
S: This is stuff on Star Wars and stuff, so you’ll have to put in a search, you’ll have to know what you want 
PL: Right
S: Um (.)
PL: Is there one you want to search for?  Or do they do music as well
S: Yeah
PL: Look at that
S: (…) Some you tend to avoid like you’ll see (…) you look at ones that you see as hanging on the background
PL: Right
S: The back end of it and well I tend to avoid them
PL: Right
S: You know
PL: Why’s that?
S: Coz you, well I feel like they’re just getting on the back of something just to make the money
PL: Oh I see so you like sites that have been around a while
S: I think so, yeah, yeah
PL: (…)
S: [laughs]
PL: So that’s, what do you think about (…)
S: What,  this on here
PL: Yeah
S: I suppose it’s OK um
PL: It’s got reviews for the albums
S: You want a bit more of a search where you can put in search for music under say classical or rock or drum and bass or whatever
PL: Yeah, have you seen the ‘CD Now’ site, I agree that’s very (.) I’ll show you ‘CD Now’ (.) 
S: So then you can put in stuff on there
PL: Yeah, here we are
S: Alright, so you buy CDs on this site
PL: Yeah
S: Yeah, yeah
PL: They’ve got sale stuff over there but you’ve got different categories here
S: Alright, yeah, yeah
PL: Rock, alternative indie, pop, hip hop, jazz
S: Alright, yeah
PL: So we can look, what do you want to look for?
S: Say electronic dance I suppose or blues how about jazz
PL: There’s blues
S: You’ve got funk and blues and there’s jazz up there
PL: Jazz, let’s try it (.) it’s taking a while isn’t it
S: Yeah (.) but for music you tend to just go into the shop (…)
PL: Do you think so?  You don’t see yourself using this ?
S: Well because you can, for music now if you get an MP3 player you can just download your music
PL: Oh right
S: Yeah, um so because lots of music is now um err in this MP3 format
PL: Right
S: So, you know, most well not most but a lot of the um rock stars are producing their own music and selling it on the Web and stuff
PL: Yeah, yeah
S: Yeah, George Michael and people and that
PL: That’s because he couldn’t sell his because he was in dispute with Sony
S: Sony yeah, yeah (…) [laughs]
PL: Oh right so they can sell it directly to you over the Net, that’s interesting
S: And from that you can like burn a CD or store it on something, you know
PL: Right (.) how do you think that might affect the music industry if that were to take off?
S: Well the music industry they’ll have to, god (.) they’ll have to start changing their act some way in order to get new talent and somehow hold on to the old talent um so they’ll change the management, they’ll change how they interact with the musicians
PL: Right
S: Yeah, the fees themselves would be much reduced because if someone can set up their own website or put stuff on the Net
PL: Right, right
S: for a couple of hundred and yet for (…) taking 10% of profits which will be thousands they’ll have to start thinking that one through
PL Yeah right, right
S: You know um so it comes down to the money men doesn’t it? Yeah, well I mean they tried to outlaw it, I mean this was the thing 
PL: That’s right
S: Sony tried to outlaw publishing music on the Net
PL: Yeah right
S: or something.  I remember there was something on the news um and I remember even BT when they were having all of these sites these free Internet sites coming up and, what was it, there was some dispute that BT had anyway
PL: Yes
S: It might be on cable or something but initially they said no you can’t do this um in the law but it was either putting sites or creating a new server or something but they turned around and they’ve got on the bandwagon now you see so all of these
PL: That’s right
S: companies that will go against these things find they can’t (…) and they will have to start towing the line and doing their own thing
PL: Yes
S: It does bring people up really um if you can’t um cope with um new technology you have to learn to bring yourself up to the standard, to a level in which we can compete otherwise you’ll get, you know, and (.) and that is the way really you know sort of, for me I mean I have to.  Another thing I have to search for um are free courses on the Net now for, well you can find them for anything, but like for me I’ll find courses on um say new programming or networks or something you know so I can keep my own self up you see um and it is it is all that sort of stuff you know taking care of yourself really
PL: Right, right, what about customers who don’t have any IT background ?
S: Right um there are um, it is a difficult one, there need to be places they can go and be taught um the rudiments, I mean there are some people who are afraid of a computer
PL: Yeah right
S: So there needs to be some way of getting them into that, a friend of mine who’s been doing this for a while he’s working in Hackney and um he set up an office where they bring in local people and teach them how to get onto the Web and to do searches and all this, so what John my friend was saying to me was um people come in and initially they will be learning how use the stuff
PL: Yeah
S: A few people, this is Hackney, come in with their beer and stuff and mess the place and that, so that wasn’t very good um but then they ended up closing down this office because of what was happening and they messed up their finances you know and all that
PL: Right
S: Um so
PL: But they generally (…) I don’t think there’s a lot of that going on, educating people to
S: Yeah it’s, that itself will have to pick up because I don’t know what um how many people there are on the Net that use it, I mean the last time I heard was about 14% and that has to go up
PL: Right
S:  I mean people have um computers in their home and that
PL: Yeah, yeah
S: But it still costs them the phone you know that’s the pain paying for that phone bill um there needs to be a way round it um and there needs to be a way of getting people in, they need to figure out how to do it
PL: Get them on line and get them involved?
S: Yeah, yeah
PL: I think that’s right there’s still, well computers are still, they’re coming down in price for what you get all the time, but they’re still expensive
S: Well it’s software, um if you’ve got a computer you have to get all the chips and all the electronics put it together to do the same you have to buy all those chips again so that costs money.  Software, you write your code you’ve done it once you copy, you don’t have to pay that costs again
PL: Yeah
S: Yeah, there’s a serious rip-off going on by people like Microsoft and people like this um now you’ve got Linex which is a UNIX type operating system and anyone (…)
PL: Yeah
S: One of the ways of getting people into using (…) get them to use some other software that they’ll have to have support from you know um so there are ways of getting people in and getting tied into, yeah Microsoft are good at doing that
PL: Yeah
S: You know, um I mean they really, to my mind Microsoft are crooks [laughs]
PL: [laughs]
S: Um like with NT they have Internet Explorer which is built into the operating system
PL: Yeah right
S: You see, which is just so bad it’s just, god you need to be open to let people have the choice of everything themselves but that’s how you make money
PL: That’s right, increasing commercialisation of the Net
S: Yeah, yeah, well for themselves
PL: Yeah right
S: Yeah um (.) that either people accept and take it and people, and people do in certain areas of the sector
PL: Well they don’t necessarily know about the alternatives
S: That’s it, that’s it, it’s a new technology
PL: Right, right
S: But hopefully once they’ve learnt they may um say I want something different, but then it may be too late
PL: Too late, too late because they’re holding the market
S: Um, um (.)
PL: What about
S: What sort of things are you into sort of
PL: Well, you were talking about shares (.) I think this is it, the site (.) yeah here we go (.)
S: Now this is one of those, you see that’s a name that someone has registered and are willing to sell it on, you know like someone creating the name sainsburys dot co and then going to Sainsbury’s ‘would you like to buy this name’ you know
PL: So no-one’s got a thing called that yet?
S: No might shareway dot com perhaps, you’ve got
PL: There’s another one yeah, I know that’s the thing I was thinking about (.) stocks and shares, you were talking about buying shares
S: Yeah, the reason why it’s come up with that, a friend of mine he trades on the Net so, there you go, he makes his money doing it 
PL: I wonder what it’s called, I’ll look on my lap-top computer
S: OK
PL: I’ve got all my bookmarks on this 
S: Oh right
PL: For interviews in people’s homes, so I use this thing, so I get my bookmarks from this, then we can go and visit a few other places (.) URL’s are not easy to remember are they?
S: Well they should be, this is it
PL: They should be shouldn’t they, yeah
S: As you type them in they automatically see if they can find it for you 
PL: That’s right (.) just power this thing up (.) it takes a while to load up this one
S: Um, (…) 98 (.)
PL: Well the um (.) (…)
S: They sell their shares initially at a £1 or £1.05 or £1.20 and then when they floated they were expecting them to go up to £1.50, the shares you know, and they limited the amount of shares you can buy, a thousand pounds worth or five hundred or something, they limited it
PL: That’s right
S: I mean a lot of these shares you can get them free, um sometimes when you get onto an account people will send you some free shares as long as you say you got them from such and such (…)
PL: Yeah
S: You can make money from that thing (3.0)
PL: I haven’t got it on here either (.) 
S: There’s fool dot com
PL: What’s that one
S: Cool is um it’s a share um (.) it’s a share, a site for getting shares but it tells you how to buy shares and what to do with them
PL: We’ll go for that shall we?
S: Yeah
PL: Is it called fool.com is it?
S: Fool dot com yeah (.)  Is all this the sort of stuff that you want?
PL: Yeah, yeah
S: I notice you’re covering your mouth with your hand there, it’s like (…)
PL:  No, no, no don’t worry
S: [laughs]
PL: It’s fool dot com (.) that’s it
S: that’s it yeah
PL: Ah this is it, so what do you think about this as a site?
S: I think this is a good one, I mean I don’t know much about shares so I started to go on this and have a little read around and stuff
PL: (…) So they’re saying this power to the people thing
S: (…) you see Amazon is a book seller and they sell books um I think they’re from America and that’s the thing, and this what kinda of what I’m saying um and this why I wouldn’t go to W H Smith’s.  You can buy a book Amazon have a book say um and you can buy it in the UK for say £20 but you can go to their US site and buy it in the US for $20 and get them to mail it
PL: That’s right
S: You know, it’s things like that yeah um and you know about the cars in Europe you can go to Europe and buy a car for 14% or 15% less than you could over here
PL; Yeah
S: It’s all of that sort of stuff
PL: Yeah right so you have access to other markets that you wouldn’t have?
S: Yeah, yeah and it means that those businesses that want, I mean they’re still trying to sell you this idea that ‘oh the British public are getting good value for buying their car over here’, to my mind it’s still rubbish you know um but they’ll change their tune, they’ll have to change their tune
PL: Do you still think they’ll still be in competition?
S: Oh yeah, oh yeah yeah and if they can’t um they’ll try initially they’ll rebel against it, everything, everybody I think rebels against change to begin with but just to, you know simply economically they’re going to have to stop moaning and get on with it really and find ways to increase their market and to compete you know, oh yeah
PL: Low on cash, invest anyway (.) 
S: This is a site worth looking at I think (.) that’s another thing with this Imean you just spend hours looking or whatever
PL: Right, right
S: Um so it’s worthwhile putting down a few points of what you want to begin with, this is later on I think (.)
PL: So this is quite good it gives lots of information about shares and how to buy them, what to think about them
S: I mean that’s the thing you don’t need to know anything, just get onto the Web and you can learn as you go, you know, yeah (.)
PL: So do you think that will bring people into buying stocks and shares, it sounds like you’ve seen it but you basically think of it almost as like an interest and entertainment site you’re not actually buying shares at the moment 
S: But I hope to be doing it
PL: Right
S: I hope to learn in, to get, to have an idea of what goes on you know myself, because at the moment it’s still an (…) sort of thing
PL: Hm
S: It’s like the car you know, the mechanic knows it all but if you’re just driving it you know, um all of this allows you to, if you want to, that’s the thing if you want to find out about it then it is there, if you want to find out about the Net or you want to find out about I don’t know anything, cars say
PL: Right
S: You know you can do it
PL: Do you think people will use it primarily as an information resource or buying?
S: Initially, it will be used as an information thing once they’re comfortable with the thing they’ll move on
PL: Right. Right
S: One way or another they may not want to use it that, but you know initially it is the information and (.) from that they’ll be passing it on because you’ll find people that (.) um, um know what sites to use on the Internet they’ll go and show someone else, well these are the sites I know that you can use for shares
PL: Right, right
S: Um and then that way show other people, so passing on information like that and information is the money
PL: Right
S: In the end this is what I’m told anyway um it sounds like money’s the thing but it isn’t a lot, I think that’s what drives a lot of this, money is at the back of a lot of this one way or another, it didn’t used to be, it used to be a thing of if you had some research or you’d some chip or you developed some form or (…) and this would be a way of getting information around you know um and it still is that and still will grow like that um.  I remember there was this thing of having um expert systems around
PL; Yeah right
S: You know you’d have a doctor in California or wherever looking at how he did the operation and you’d see the hospital there, um that itself just with time is bound to occur 
PL: Right
S: It’s just, that’s just a technological thing yeah you’re managing a robot, I mean you can manage robots on the moon from down here
PL: Yeah right
S: You know so it’s not too difficult to manage a robot from here, this room, that operates a drill over in the North Sea or something.  You might have an oil well I don’t know, that oil well you kept quiet about over in California [laughs] you know you can manage the drilling of that over here and it does open up that sort of stuff
PL: What about people’s sort of everyday lives, I mean just in terms of shopping, looking to the future how do you see that being affected?
S: Well yeah, um you can shop on the Net I mean Tesco’s have got a site and um I suppose some of the other companies will have a site um.  For those that want it will be there but I still believe in using your legs and getting there which is the thing, they’ll be so much stuff that you can do, you yourself will have to start choosing um and I firmly believe in using your own mind for what you can do yeah and using, yeah I use the Net all the time but I still use my head for doing maths and leave my calculator alone
PL: Right
S: You know um whereas there are the people, the younger people I suppose that will come up and start using the Net for their shopping so I suppose with that sort of thinking taking that sort of thing on board there may be push towards people shopping on the Net, staying at home, not getting up to open the front door for days, weeks on end because they can buy their food on the Net, they can put their letters on the Net, the can do their communication, they can work on the Net
PL: Right
S: So there won’t be a reason for going out of that front door.  I suppose that could happen in the future
PL: [telephone call]
S: Yeah, this is one of the possible down sides of um technology, not necessarily the Web and the Internet but just technology, I mean you’ve seen those doorbells, you ring a doorbell and it plays a tune
PL: Yeah right
S: You know, some people like that, my auntie she has one and when I go round there I just knock on the door because I can’t stand ringing it you know
PL: [laughs]
S: And
PL: So why not, so you think there are limits in areas where we should use technology even though it is going to develop?
S: I think there’s limits, I mean that’s where my own prejudice comes in there because I think that you should use your mind.  I mean I suppose it comes from when I go round the supermarket to do my stuff I tend to just reckon it up in my head how much it will be
PL: Right, right
S: And when you go to the till, I mean there was some incident when I went to the till and the woman couldn’t work something out or something and she was relying on her till to tell her the right thing whereas I knew that that was wrong, we’re relying on technology.  So you can rely upon technology um or at least now within these ten years (…) to be right
PL: And increasingly (…)
S: Yeah unless they point this out and that’s the problem that comes up just goes through teething problems but um it’s (.) it’s quite bad because that’s what I pick up on and that’s what people tend to pick up on
PL: Right
S: When you see someone using the technology or something without using their own mind or skills using their own un
PL: And what are the dangers of that, you sound like you feel um
S: Danger in that is, well, you can lock somebody up can’t you, um you’re a paedophile because your genetic code says you’re a paedophile and it was somebody else who spelt their name wrong
PL: Right, right
S: That’s a quite outlandish sort of thing, but in reality what happens now I think um Sainsbury’s or Tesco’s I remember a while ago they had this offer this thing where they would um offer you, you get offered at the check out, you buy so many items and at the check out they would say you’ve three items buy two get one free say um but it didn’t actually work, um some of the tills in the country didn’t actually have that going in you know
PL: Right, right, yes
S: Um so there are only sort of little things um which I think really come down to people anyway, you know, if you can save money by not giving people the benefit at the check out till if buying goods say um then you can save money there but the ultimate problem with it is when people don’t use their own um (.) they can’t test things in their own head
PL: Right, right
S: If you add up um, it’s like um the millennium bug where did that come from um a computer had written on some box that the sell by date was 6 August 00, that dates gone, throw the thing away 
PL: Right
S: It’s similar thing, but it’s still going on, the computer says that or the till check out says your bill is a hundred and odd pounds, that actually happened to me, it actually happened to me.  I gave my switch card and um and it came out as, she’d actually typed things in wrong it was hundred and something pounds as opposed to ten pounds something so they had to scrub the thing out.  The error checking was me and the actual woman
PL: Right, right
S: Yeah, but if I’d been sleepy or she’d been sleepy I’d have signed the bill
PL: Yeah
S: You know and things like that and I mean that was just one incident that happened to me that’s going to happen to me again I’m afraid and to other people, but the thing is people will just accept it, people that don’t know ‘oh that’s right’ or they don’t look at their bill or things like this.  Lots of time a check up the bill and I’m a pound or so out and I think that looks right you know but there must I think there must be times when perhaps I’m not
PL: yeah, yeah and that’s interesting because as you say in those examples you can think what the price is and work is out but I suppose in electronic commerce a lot of the software that’s being developed now agent software, negotiations have you heard about this stuff (…) technology so that you won’t actually organise the shop yourself but you have an agent
S: You have agent out there doing it for you, yeah 
PL: I mean when you talk about dependency that’s
S: Jesus Christ yeah, yeah.  But the agency would hopefully build in these various checks of minutes that goes outside these area, check again say um
PL: Right
S: Or come back to me and I’ll stuff um
PL: Right, right
S: Yeah I mean that sort of thing will have to be implemented within them within these agents because that’s what they’ll, what they’ll have they’ll have um some little programmes which will just trawl through the Internet and look at the shares yeah
PL: Yeah right
S: Within this region and come back and tell me where they are initially
PL: Right
S: But later you want them to sell buy and sell for you
PL: That’s right
S: Because it’ll be a lot quicker
PL: That’s right
S: You know
PL: You don’t want them to come back to you, you might be asleep, you might not go online for a couple of day, you want them to have the power to do the transaction on your behalf
S: Initially um they’ll test this out in um a secure sort of safe environment yeah
PL: Yeah, yeah
S: To try and iron out the bugs you know
PL: [laughs]
S: Um but, it’s a it is a human thing that does fail, computers tends not to fail yeah um it’s always going to be the person
PL: Right
S: That’s either coding it or using it
PL: Right, right
S: And that’s the problem you know the check out tills (…) (.)
PL: OK thanks a lot, that’s great











Ut33

User trial 33, ABC1 cohabs, High IT, 36-55, 28.7.99

LM: Okay so what is it that you both do?
E: I work for the B, I er manage a technical IT team doing network designs for B’s overseas offices
LM: Right okay (.) so you have to know your way around computers and the Internet
E: Some yeah (.) [laughs] Yeah I use the Internet quite a lot actually at work
LM: And what for?
E: Um for picking up technical information, maybe going to the sites of things like Novell and Microsoft, various hardware dealers like Dell or Compaq, that kind of thing
C: (…) Right
E: You look excited 
C: Do you want a cup of tea? E: No I’ve got water thank you
C: Right, so, were you waiting long?
LM: No I wasn’t I just popped around to see P
C: Right
LM: Okay (.) and do you use it for personal stuff as well (…) information about things
E: Yeah I do I’ve done it for um hotel bookings that kind of stuff overseas, um various shopping things um looking up (.) railway times
LM: Right
E: Flight details, prices um financial information
LM: Right
E: Quite a lot of stuff really
LM: So do you use it most days?
E: I use it every day at work (.) absolutely without fail, um and I sometimes use it at work for personal things, there’s not a problem with that where I work, but at home (.) sometimes I might not use it for a week or sometimes I might use it five nights (.) it varies
LM: Okay (.) and what about you C? (.) Do you
E: Internet, using the Internet
C: I have, I’ve got a friend in America I email regularly
LM: Mm hm
C: Apart from that I haven’t used it much, I’ve done a bit of historical research
LM: Mm
E: On p
(2.0)
[laughs]
E: Not many sites
LM: [laughs] Okay
C: So yeah I’ve done a little bit, not much, nothing like as much as E
LM: Okay. And you’ve done some shopping on it then E, cause that’s what I’m kind of
E: Yeah
LM: Interested in really (.) showing you shopping sites
E: Yeah
LM: And talking about that
E: Yeah (.) I have (.) and, and yeah I mean, I found it very useful earlier this year I spent five weeks in Hong Kong and before we went there (.) I found this hotel that we were all going to stay in, you know me and my colleagues and er cause we thought we’d find a better deal than the office was putting forward and er you know (.) in an email conversation with the reservations staff and everything (.) That was quite good, quite handy, especially when you can actually visually see what you’re looking for (.) I mean it’s not quite the same buying clothes off the Internet can sometimes be disappointing but
LM: Have you tried that?
E: Yeah
LM: Okay (.) and
E: I haven’t actually, er I’ve looked at sites but not bought because I’m not sure (.)
LM: Right
E: You know (.) and there’s some like let’s take for instance Land’s End (.) I get the catalogue
LM: Hm
E: Er I can look at the site (.) but (.) you know um I was buying through the catalogue anyway
LM: Right
E: But there’s a few other American-based ones that I’ve looked at like (.) LJ Bean that kind of thing
LM: Oh yeah
E: Yeah
LM: Okay (.) and so that was disappointing in (.) what way?
E: Well in the same way that a catalogue is really, you can’t be sure of what you’re getting you know and it, and sometimes they don’t clarify things like I mean I’m (.) always interested, very interested in what um (.) clothes are made of, their fabric
LM: Mm hm
E: You know (.) I want all that sort of factual information whether it’s cotton, silk, linen whatever, I want to know if there’s any man-made fibres in it, you know that kind of thing really
LM: Mm hm
E: But you can always be sure that if they’re not giving you the information it’s because it’s what you don’t want to hear (.) it’s all acrylic or viscose or something like that
LM: Yeah, yeah they’d tell you if it was sort of cotton
E: Yeah yeah
LM: Or silk or whatever
E: Yeah (.) but I thought the hotel booking was very good because obviously you can get um views of the hotel on the Internet which are a pretty good representation of (.) what you might see (.) apart from one who [laughs] they’d done themselves, they’d done a picture of their gym on the Internet which looked hu::ge
LM: [laughs]
E: Fantastic (.) it was all mirrors (.) when we actually went into it there was a small room, probably er you know maybe just as big as this room or a little bit shorter or whatever (.) and it was just you know three sided mirrors
C: [laughs]
E: It looked enormous it was in the um Empire where we stayed in Hong Kong it was a tiny room
C: It was tiny
E: Yeah [laughs] It looked so big on the Internet 
LM: Yeah
(1.5)
E: But I use it at work um perhaps to buy something immediately this is for, in IT terms
LM: Right
E: You can buy fixes, patches or you know small bits of software that you can download immediately which is fantastically useful if you’re desperate for something to solve the problem that you’re working on (.) so that really is useful
(1.0)
LM: Okay (.) and what about food shopping
E: Haven’t done that and I think it’s a great idea (.) I mean I think, I don’t know, food (.) I’ve looked at some organic websites, just you know to see what kind of deals they might be offering that kind of thing, they weren’t really up together those sites when I was looking at them I didn’t really take it any further (.) um I quite like fresh food shopping, but I could see a great deal of potential in shopping for (.) goods that come in cans
LM: Hm
E: Or um loo rolls or you know (.) foil that kind of stuff, I’d love not to bring them all home, to have someone deliver them to my door after I’d ordered them on the Internet. Fresh food is quite fun shopping in a shop (.) you know choosing things
LM: Yeah
E: But for other kind of stuff you get in the supermarket I wouldn’t mind having that delivered (1.0) but um the last time I looked into it you know in the, the (.) I think it’s the Tesco’s scheme that was in this area but more in West London not over this part of London
LM: (…)
E: So I didn’t no, initially, maybe it was Sainsbury’s I looked at, and their pilot site wasn’t around here (.) so I just didn’t take it any further
LM: Okay
E: I’ve never
C: So is Pr fully sponsored by the supermarket chains now?
LM: They’re very competive. When we started (.) Tesco were very keen to sort of like hear what he had to say and then (.) Sainsbury’s have you know, have launched a site soon so all the other ones are going to, so they’re actually a bit reluctant to talk
E: Well what I’d read about it was that it was taking off very slowly actually and not sort of moving in the way they’d expected it to you know not (.) you know this, the supermarket shopping isn’t really what people are interested in. I mean I, you can do (.) you know wine shopping over the Internet that kind of thing, that’s um (.) quite interesting (.) looking up (.) technical specifications on things like you know fridges and washing machines is quite useful because you can actually get the measurements that kind of thing if you, I mean I did that on the Tempo site, looked up a few things for actual measurements to make sure it would actually fit (.) where I wanted it to go
LM: Yeah
E: Didn’t buy via the Internet, just looked up that kind of information
LM: That’s very popular apparently (.) and what you were saying about not getting enough information about clothes or whatever because (.) if the net’s good for anything I suppose it is good for
E: They should put all of that sort of stuff up there, yeah, they should (.) if it was consistent, all the information that you’re getting (.) yeah (.) you know it would be useful (.) but I mean yeah I mean the idea of it quite appeals to me (.) not having to go into shops [laughs]
LM: Yeah
E: Um (.) shoe shopping’s rather difficult thought because er (.) shoes don’t always seem to be the size they say they are (.) that’s the manufacturer’s fault
LM: (…) yeah
E: Yeah and quite often shoes I buy (.) have bought (.) from catalogues and whatever because I, I suppose I apply (.) what I’ve found wrong with catalogue shopping
LM: Mm
E: To what I expect to be a problem on the Internet 
LM: Mm (.) Hm (.) And have you bought any clothes and had to sort of take them back or (.) tried to ask about how you would do that? I mean that seems to be
E: Not on the Internet no, no
(1.0)
LM: Okay (.) well shall we look at some sites
E: Yeah
LM: (…)
E: Yep (.) I’ll go and get the box
(4.0)
C: So who’s this research sponsored by?
LM: It’s sponsored by the ESRC, the economic and social research council, so it’s government funded
C: Right
LM: Um (.) but we have to demonstrate its usefulness (.) to potential commercial or public users (…) but there’s no commercial sponsorship (.) I mean there’s plenty of commercial research being done on e-commerce but not much kind of academic stuff
(7.0)
LM: So do you use computers much at all C? C: Only for writing (.) I’m a writer I do a lot of writing but I don’t, no, nothing more than that (.) I play solitaire
LM: Mm hm
E: Well you have some slightly more um successful searching on the Internet a few (.) a few weeks ago didn’t you? I can’t remember exactly what it was you were looking for but it was a bit more successful
C: I found the book of the brigade of horse
E: Oh that’s right yes
C: Which is a very obscure military history book which I was really pleased to find (2.0) yeah generally sort of, cause I mean historical research it’s been pretty useless so far I mean hasn’t it really?
E: Mm
C: It has been really useless
E: But then I think it’s just because you don’t know enough about searching (.) I mean I’ve used it for researching
C: You’ve helped me sometimes though and you don’t get on any better do you?
E: Yeah but not, we’ve not really stuck at it for a long time, because I’m not that interested in pith helmets (.) whereas you can find out a lot about subjects you may not necessarily yourself know anything about, like for instance medical information
LM: Mm hm
E: Um (.) you know because once you’ve picked up key words and you know what to put in and search for you know you can find out a lot (1.5) maybe that’s what it is with you know, what you’re looking for, you need to find some more key words (.) that you know things that have actually been indexed under
LM: Yeah well in terms of finding new things sort of things that you don’t often, that you haven’t bookmarked or you don’t automatically know where you’re going (.) I mean what do you usually do, do you usually go to like a big search engine sort of like Lycos or something or
E: Ye::ah I quite often would use Yahoo! um to start a search
LM: Yeah
E: And then just you know, you just follow it through don’t you, the links from site to site
LM: Yeah
E: Um (3.0) But also you know at work people give you good sites, not always work related ones, they’ll send it around to people you know, saying it’s good or whatever. Or if you know someone’s got an interest in something (.) you send them a site if you come across it 
LM: Hm
E: Quite recently I’ve been doing a Spanish course at work and so I get, I’ve done a bit of searching for language courses or supporting stuff or Spanish (.) text on the Internet that’s the kind of basic level, that kind of thing, and that’s quite useful (2.0) you can find you know weekly news magazines that aren’t in advanced Spanish so you can get a gist of what they article’s about, that kind of thing you know
LM: I’ve been trying to find some basic Catalan so maybe I should pursue it (2.0) Okay (.) so can I just let you have a go (.) um and (.) you can go anywhere you like really
E: Oh right you can
LM: (…) shopping (…)
E: We’re not going to look at sites that you want information and feedback on?
LM: I mean well not, well I’d like to cover some shopping sites, but if you already know some retailers and you know what the sites are like or there are things you want to look for
E: Okay
LM: Then you know just sort of
C: This is weird, what’s this?
LM: That’s the um, that’s the mouse (.) it takes a bit of getting used to
E: Okay what shall we go for? (.) Where’s the delete key (.) okay let’s just do it (4.0) I think that’s the right URL (1.0) We’ll have a look at Land’s End see if we can find you some nice er (.) summer sandals shall we
C: [laughs]
E: You wanted some didn’t you?
C: I thought you’d already ordered them
E: No I haven’t ordered them because those ones that are in the sale are, I got the catalogue the other day
LM: Right
E: Are um not available in your size (.) so (.) it wasn’t possible (6.0) Peculiar mouse (.) takes a while to get used to different mouse, mice
(4.0)
LM: So is Land’s end a (.) just a British 
E: No it’s American basically, in this country it’s based up in Cumbria (.) and it does that kind of LJ Bean type stuff, Racing Green type stuff, but I prefer it to um (.) to Racing Green (.) I think that er
C: Do you want another cup of tea?
LM: Great, thanks
(9.0)
E: Where’s the (.) the actual clothes, is that it? (.) No it’s an (…) signpost even I can see that (…) catalogue there (.) ‘order catalogue’ yes (1.5) Don’t know what that is (9.0) Oh well I don’t know where all their clothes have gone (.) oh well we’ll go somewhere else (.) Where else do I go shopping? (.) Hm (12.0) (…)
LM: So when did you first buy something on the Net, was that (…)? E: No I’d probably bought a few things for work across the Net before then
LM: (…)
E: Yeah, yeah
C: Oh railway tickets as well, don’t you?
E: No I get rail times from the Net
C: Oh
E: But you have to still phone up to get um (.) to actually purchase them. I’ve just um I bark with Bank (.) and just bought their um
C: Bark with Bankleys? [laughs] Is that what you said?
E: Oh did I?
C: I think you did [laughs]
E: [laughs] I bank with Barclays (.) and I’ve just got their um Barclays.net software, you know, so that you can do all your banking online (.) I haven’t actually um (.) done much with it yet, but I’m, I’m quite interested in um (.) you know the idea of getting information about financial things on the Internet, because er (.) I don’t know anything about finances [laughs] and I always think that er (.) I’m a moron (.) Oh:: (.) ‘men’s tops’ I really need to get men’s tops, but here we go (.) Do you want a top, C? (…) 
(15.0)
LM: So Racing Green doesn’t have any (.) real (.) it doesn’t have any real shops, does it, I mean it’s
E: It’s got one in Regent Street
LM: Right
E: But that was opened quite a long time after the catalogue was around
LM: Right
E: Um 
LM: So it’s still primarily a 
E: (…) wouldn’t say it was completely Internet based but er (.)
LM: And had you bought from the catalogue before you
E: Before I looked at the Internet site, yeah (.) yeah. The only (.) 
C: With milk?
LM: Yeah that’s great
(9.0)
C: Like a (…) isn’t it?
(.) 
LM: Yeah
C: James (.) James has got one of these
E: Has he?
C: Yeah with one of these (…) I saw him playing on it the other night
E: Oh right (.) from work, is that where it was from?
C: Don’t know (.) I imagine so
(4.5)
E: Come on (.) (…) the picture. So (.) here we have dresses
LM: Hm
E: So it does actually tell you (.) that’s wool, that’s linen and viscose
LM: Hm
E: So we could go perhaps and have a (.) a bit more of a look at that maybe (…) about it (8.5) So this is (…) Hm
LM: Washing
E: Washing instructions, that’s quite handy. ‘Dry clean’ (.) right we don’t want that then [laughs] can’t be bothered with that (.) definitely not er (3.0) I think there’s quite reasonable information on there about that, about that particular item. Um (7.0) What is this um, oh it’s a Pentium II it’s not going very fast (20.0) Whether it’s um you know something they’re doing on the site or whatever (.) I’d find this a bit slow
LM: Hm
E: If I had to, I’d soon give up if I was trying to shop, you know, if I really knew that I wanted to buy something and it was um (.) being this slow, because er (.) it’s a bit um (.) a bit tedious (.) Shall we go to another site?
LM: Yeah
C: Sure
E: Do you want to go to another site? What do you fancy shopping for dear? We can go and look at the supermarket one. Do you want to go and look at one?
LM: (…) books, CDs, food I mean there’s all sorts of things
C: See if Giko are on there, see if they have a site
E: What the people that make your (.)
C: Karate uniforms
E: Er (1.5) bet they’re not
C: Bet they are
E: Why do you know they are?
C: No but I bet they are
E: Why?
C: Well they’re the sort of the thing that should be on there, isn’t it? If you run a mail order catalogue you should be on the Internet shouldn’t you?
E: Do they?
C: They do run a mail order catalogue yeah (2.5) I teach P’s kids karate
LM: Oh right okay
C: They’ve been doing it the last few weeks
LM: Does P go too?
C: He’s come to watch a couple of times (.) he won’t join in [laughs] (.) not yet he said he might if A didn’t take to it you know cause they were a bit worried, but she’s fine you know they’re both, they’re both taking to it nicely
E: How do you spell it?
C: G-I-K-O
(10.0)
E: I thought you said you knew they had one?
C: I didn’t, no I said it seemed they should have one
E: Oh okay
C: (…)
LM: Dot com, could it be?
C: Sorry?
LM: Could it be dot com?
E: (…)
LM: Or are they just British
C: I don’t know (.) I think they’re based in Birmingham
E: Hm (.) I’ll try (.) but normally if you’ve registered yourself as dot (2.5) you normally have a pointer don’t you? (3.0) Probably find some weird American thing [laughs] that’s going to be offering you something completely different
C: Some church [laughs] (2.0) We found a bizarre thing one night, we were just looking through for like for you know for some martial arts clubs and um there’s a, there’s a Ctian fellowship for um (.) rescuing people from their martial arts clubs [laughs]
E: [laughs]
LM: [laughs]
C: If you get too deeply into karate or judo [laughs] you can call them for help, you know
LM: That is bizarre
E: [laughs]
C: [laughs] They come and disentangle you
E: Well it can be a bit brainwashing (.) I don’t think anything’s happening here (2.0) Go and look at food shopping, see how we like it 
(14.0)
E: Right (.) do you want to come, do you want to sit here for a minute and have a better
C: Okay
E: look at it? (.) I’ll move over here cause you’ve just been (…)
C: (…)
E: (…)
LM: (…)
C: God that’s really stiff isn’t it?
E: I could go and get my own mouse (.) put in an external mouse
LM: Yeah if you’d rather
C: How do you move this then?
LM: Just sort of (.) sweep it (.) sweep your finger around on it like that
(6.0)
C: That’s really hard going, I must be doing something wrong (.) how hard do you press?
LM: You don’t (.) need to press too hard, but you sort of need to (.) er
C: [laughs]
LM: Yeah I’m not really sure whether it’s over-sensitive or not sensitive enough sometimes
C: It’s not sensitive enough is it?
(2.0)
E: Here you are
C: Here you are, this is hopeless (.) 
E: Well you’d get used to it, you would get used to it
C: But I touch it and then it flicks away again [again] I have it on what I want to line it up then I (.)
E: (…)
C: They do loans as well
E: Who do? C: Tesco
E: Yeah
(3.0)
C: Right, that’s better. Right (.) ‘Hungarian president goes shopping at Tesco’s’
E: What do you want to know about that for for God’s sake
LM: [laughs]
E: We’re supposed to be shopping for something
LM: [laughs]
C: Why have they put it in, do you think?
LM: (…) Kensington store
E: Right let’s go and do shopping
C: How do you do that then? LM: There should be a bit somewhere that says you can (.) (…)
E: Click here see whether they actually (.)
C: Click here, where there? E: Up there to see whether we can actually on, that’s it, to see whether we can actually do it in our area (.) presumably we can if P did
(4.0)
C: The word ‘Tesconet’ looks really wrong doesn’t it?
E: You think so?
C: Yeah
(2.0)
E: See this is very slow as well isn’t it?
LM: Mm
E: Cause I mean usually you’d get on this site quite quickly with this machine, is this unusually slow? LM: Yeah I mean (.) I don’t use it during the day very much and it’s often (.) a bit slow in the evening. I don’t know (.) it’s slower than the connection at UCL and that’s (.)
C: (…)
LM: Go back a page and try ‘Internet superstore’ maybe (4.0) Ah it’s the same
E: That would be a bit of a shame (.) if you were desperate to order your pasta (.) and your pesto sauce (5.0) It’s not going to happen
LM: We could try Sainsbury’s
E: Yeah go up, go up and change that (.) just change that to Sainsbury’s
C: Where there?
E: Mm hm (.) (…) and press ‘enter’
C: Ah you do it
E: You can sit here
C: No you do it
E: Hm (.) well sit here C then we can all see
C: I always give up very early like you know I, I never have the patience to do this sort of thing (.) really (15.0) ‘Making Life Taste Better’ [laughs] who thought that up? (2.0) It’s terrible isn’t it?
E: Mm
LM: Yeah they probably spent so much money on it as well
(15.0)
E: If this works dear we could er stop going shopping, normal shopping
C: Ah
E: Get them to deliver all those horrible heavy things (.) Oh
LM: Hm
C: What does that mean?
E: They’re not delivering in our area
C: Hm
E: I’ll maybe just put this in, so that when they’re finally ready (.)
C: Why don’t they do a half and half service, whereby you like just tap it in and they go and fill a trolley for you and then
E: [laughs]
C: And you just go and pay for it. That could work couldn’t it? (.) I hate food trolleys
(3.0)
LM: I suppose it depends which part of the shopping experience you don’t like (.) really
C: I don’t like much it (.) I don’t like the crowds and I don’t like having to queue up to get out (.) I don’t like driving there and parking the car 
E: (…) see if Tesco’s has improved at all
LM: You might be able to (.) hm (.) both sites should have some way you can kind of test-run it (.) where you can see what the kind of interface is like you know (.) can’t order but you can see the list system and 
(5.0)
E: I’ve found some great instant recipe ideas (.) let’s go and look at shopping I want to order food online
(2.0)
LM: Yeah ‘take a tour’ that’s the one
(12.0)
E: ‘Tour’
(30.0)
E: Oh they do collections so you could actually tell them to er fill up your trolley with exactly what you fancied and (.) you go and pick it up
C: Well that’s my idea 
E: [laughs]
C: They should be paying me for that
LM: I didn’t realise they did that actually
E: Yeah well (2.0) Look at the sample screens
C: How much do you think they charge for that then?
E: Think it’s a fiver or something, but I mean bearing in mind we only do a big supermarket shop about once a month normally don’t we? That’s not bad
LM: And if they don’t charge you to go and collect it yourself then I suppose
E: Well most of them have had picking services for ages haven’t they for old people for
C: I didn’t know that
E: For blind people or you know their, they either have somebody who will walk round the store with you or somebody who’ll do it for you, you know on behalf of old people
C: Planning for our retirement [laughs]
E: I don’t think much of this tour (.) to be perfectly frank
LM: No it’s not great
E: What I want is pictures of (.) lovely juicy food (.) and gorgeous meals saying this is what you need to buy to make this when you get home [laughs] you know
LM: Yeah (.) the Tesco one’s better but similar in that it’s list-based, there’s really no pictures at all
E: Right (.) ‘by clicking on the blue arrow you can go…’ Doesn’t really mean it there on the, on the tour, it’s not interactive like that (.) it’s not, it doesn’t really do you anything, do anything at all does it this part of the tour (.) We can go back and have a look at the Tesco’s tour (.) maybe, no I don’t like this one
C: What’s a navigation bar do you think?
E: You just move it, I mean it might (2.0) ‘Describes the use of all the buttons and boxes on the toolbar in the middle of the screen’. Probably make more sense if it was a real screen. Let’s go and find the Tesco’s one again (…) more exciting than this
(15.0)
E: And where is ‘tour’ (.) on this one?
LM: I think it should be in hear
E: Where?
LM: Tesco Direct (7.0) And most of the Tesco services they send you a CD-ROM with (.) kind of list of all the products
E: Right
LM: Which you load up as a program, but it’s not been loaded onto this (.) machine (.) um so you’re not spending any time online, you’re just kind of searching and compiling kind of lists and it is all list-based, and then you just sort of (.)
E: Not with pictures then?
LM: No
(1.5)
E: Because I mean (.) well I’m sure that you find more (.) if it was a picture of (.) like an aisle of tinned vegetables (.) you know cause you walk down and you suddenly, it’s not on your list but you suddenly think ‘oh yeah I need…’ (…) Whereas if you’re actually looking for words you’re not going to er
C: Graphics are going to be tremendous to do that though aren’t they? To recreate your supermarket in that screen there, that’s going to be impossible isn’t it?
E: Yeah but I mean you could have
C: (…) like a fantastic shop
E: You could have the CD stuff put on your hard disk (.) and then you could just get updates on things like price
LM: Mm
E: You know you don’t need to do that more than once that the actual kind of, well occasionally you may need an update when they change their product range (.) but you could have all that on your hard disk and it’s just the price information that you’re getting updated
LM: I think that’s how it works
C: If this all takes this long as well, I mean I could have been down to Tesco’s and like got it all for you and I’d be on my way back before you even
E: Do other supermarkets do it? Safeway and all like that
LM: I don’t know about Safeway I’ve never tried (.) last time I looked at Waitrose
E: There’s, there’s been no um
L: you could get information about its wine service but nothing else at all
E: Right there’s no, there’s no publicity about a Safeway one is there
LM: No
E: Another shop you’d like to try and look at? What about a motorcycle gear shop?
C: Try Motorcycle City 
(2.0)
C: Oh no hang on I think I’ve got a (.) I’ve got a catalogue actually
E: What with er a website on it?
LM: (…)
E: Do you have a number of marks in there?
LM: I don’t think there’s much on this, but I’ve stored some CD and music and um video things, and the odd clothes thing
E: I’ve looked at um Amazon a few times and the WHSmith one here, what is it?
C: Try Celeston (.) I’m sure they (.) that they’ve got an imaginative site
E: What about um (.) do you not have one for you, for your motorcycle stuff
C: Sorry?
E: Do you not have one for motorcycle stuff?
C: Yeah I’ve got it (…)
(4.0)
E: This is for all those people who need to er just get online and buy a telescope
C: [laughs]
E: Come on [laughs]
C: Sorry?
LM: Oh look
E: ‘Products’ (.) Now this is a bit faster isn’t it? (2.0) Binoculars (.)
C: This is what E wants for Ctmas
E: [laughs]
C: She wants binoculars
LM: [laughs]
C: (…) immediately
E: What shall we try C? What do you think might be (.) ‘adventure binoculars’?
C: Oh no (.) Astronomy binoculars
E: But I can’t see that, where does it say that?
C: Oh what in the left hand list?
E: Mm
C: I think Ulti, try the Ultima I think they’re binoculars
E: Well no these are all binoculars
C: Oh they’re all binoculars, right
E: [laughs] It’s all different kinds
C: Oh right [laughs]
E: What um (.) specification do you think we need? Shall we try
C: Twenty, um twenty by eighty (.) no twenty by seventy I think is the optimum
E: (…) see if we can find (.)
C: Try ‘giant’, try ‘giant series’
E: But I don’t want giant ones because they’d be very
C: Well they might include twenty by seventy
E: They’d be hard to take anywhere
C: You’ll have to have them on a tripod anyway
E: Look but they’re huge (.) a pair of complementary telescopes
C: That’s it, twenty by eighty that’s what you need
E: Oh this isn’t, this is telling you the, what the magnification is
C: It’s good, twenty times is quite (…) isn’t it?
E: Certainly is
LM: I think that’s just a separate page that’s come up
E: Er
C: Get a price on those
(4.0)
E: It doesn’t have prices (.) not connected with product information anyway
C: There’s their website if you want to try them
E: ‘M and P’ (.) Well that’s pretty good, eight by twenty-one, six ounces (.) that’s good isn’t it? I bet they cost a lot
C: (…) What do you think the others weigh?
E: Well (.) a lot more
C: Six by twenty-one though, that’s pathetic
E: I thought you just said six by twenty-five
C: For what?
E: For what you wanted
C: No:: Twenty by seventy
(3.0)
E: You can go on this then. Have a look and see what you fancy, a nice new jacket some
C: Okay
E: All-in-one leathers
C: If I choose something can I actually have it?
E: [laughs] Paid for by the project C, of course
LM: [laughs]
C: So what do I do?
E: Wait until everything gets up first. What’s the biker’s café? 
C: Uh (.)
E: ‘Catalogue’ go up to ‘catalogue’
(6.0)
C: [laughs] FAQs [laughs] What do you think ‘FAQs’ are?
E: Frequently Asked Questions
C: Huh
E: [laughs]
C: [laughs]
(2.0)
C: I thought that was a biking term
LM: [laughs]
E: [laughs]
C: not a computer term (.) Right, now what do I want
E: What do you need?
C: I want 
E: What do you need for your old (.) heap of a bike?
C: I need um (.)
E: Come on (.) has it got clothes?
C: No
E: (…) ‘spares’, ‘seats’ (2.0) (…) clothes (.) motorbike gear it’s
C: Well it does, this [points to catalogue] is full of them, full of clothes
E: So why isn’t it on here?
C: I don’t know
E: I tell you what
C: (…) actually. No it isn’t I was only, oh yes it does at the back here
E: Okay if I give you an order number you put it in there and I, if I give you a part number put it in here and see what happens
C: It might be under ‘miscellaneous’
E: No go there and I’m going to give you a part number and see what happens, whether you really get, R-E-P 8360 (.) click on ‘go’ (.) there we are (2.0) Yeah polo shirts exactly what it says in the book
C: No picture
[tape change]
E: Go back again and see if you can get to that list that was there at the front (.) and then we (.)
LM: And what about these adverts? Have you come across lots of adverts when you’ve (.)
E: I have some, they drive me mad (.) particularly when they’re, when they open themselves up and you’re confused and you think that’s the screen you’re actually intending to move to
LM: Mm hm
E: That happened to me yesterday on something, what was I doing? Can’t remember but I, oh I know I wasn’t actually buying anything I was downloading a free bit of software, an add-in that I needed for, for something I was looking at, something that would let me work with the active X controls (.) and something else suddenly jumped up on screen, I didn’t really notice it happening, and um (.) basically it was a, it was attempting to make me download free software (.) but it was all card games and things like that and just, no that really really irritates me actually
C: Right well (.) the whole clothing thing isn’t there is it? Obviously they’ve got
E: Well try something else then, try um er a rack or something or um (.) 
C: Bodywork
E: (…) nice pictures. Give them a make (.) click on that arrow and choose a make (.) Yamaha (2.0) But you’ve got a Yamaha
C: No I want a Suzuki
E: [laughs] Are you going to build it up out of pieces are you? [laughs]
C: Yeah I’m going to order it bit by bit on your credit card
LM: [laughs]
E: Okay so you have to go and put stuff in (.) which one do you want?
C: God look at the number of models
E: What is it? C: Well that’s all, that’s all the
E: I know
C: the specific types of Suzuki set
E: But what are you, which one are you looking for? (1.5) Anything (…)? Well why don’t you pick that thing up and take it down to the end then?
C: I’d forgotten that existed
(7.0) E: Are you going to go for a specific category or (.) item, anything like that?
C: Tailskirt
E: Just choose anything
C: Tailskirt [laughs] I don’t know what on earth a tailskirt is [laughs]
E: [laughs] Come on (…) 
C: Something that hangs off the end [laughs]
E: ‘Continue’ click on that
C: TL1000 tailskirt right
E: Now do you, do you click on ‘search’?
C: Search? E: No not there, not there (.) now (.) ‘continue’ (.) there you are it’s giving you an opportunity to buy a tailskirt but it’s not
C: But I don’t know what it looks like
E: No
C: You know
E: I guess they’re thinking that if you don’t know what a tailskirt is you won’t buy it
C: [laughs] This might be you just looking through for a present for me
E: [laughs]
C: You know you’d have bought me a tailskirt and you know I don’t want one, do I?
E: [laughs]
C: Cause they’re, they look terrible
E: And you haven’t got a clue whether you [laughs] want one or not. Well again it’s failing because there aren’t pictures of what it is (.) and sometimes
LM: But would that be enough information if you (.) were looking for a tailskirt?
C: No you’d,  no cause you’d want, you’d want to see what it looks like
LM: Right
E: So on some of the um
C: I mean you know obviously you’d want to replicate (.) you know a catalogue like this (.) where you can see you know photographs of everything in its detail
LM: Hm
E: What some of the um computer consumable ones have (.) is something within this, just this listing which basically is for more information if it’s got it (.) it’s got like a little eye like a tourist information eye
LM: Mm hm
E: And if you go in there you often link back to, sometimes the manufacturer’s site, sometimes something on the computer consumable company’s site (.) which would give you a picture, tell you more about that particular item which can be extremely useful you know if you want to check that something’s going to be what you need, I think
LM: But you might not always need that extra information
E: but it’s there
LM: brought up on screen
E: Yeah cause then it can, you get the list up quicker
LM: Yeah
E: Then you can choose if you want to to go in in further depth
LM: Yeah
E: Which I think, you know, a picture if you’re really thinking of buying something you like to know what it looks like
LM: Yep
E: I mean you know, catalogues don’t list things
C: I don’t know why they’ve got a website and they don’t include like the whole of the clothing (.) section (.) useless
LM: So I mean, going back to the advert thing, just cause this is sort of something which is
C: Which where?
LM: Well I mean this is (.) actually I don’t know if this is an advert
E: It’s to do with M and P motor, it’s to do with M and P motorcycles apparently
LM: But it’s something that’s sort of driving a lot of web development because the amount of traffic that goes through sites is how much they can charge for advertising and there’s lots of technological developments that will allow adverts to be much more closely tailored to sort of who you are and what you’re interested in, based on the kind of information you know in cookies or information that you voluntarily give, say when you make a purchase and you tell them
E: Mm
LM: Where you live and what you like and what you’d like information about (1.5) So I just wondered what you thought about that really as well
E: I’d find it irritating somebody trying to sell me something when I’m not um wanting to buy it
LM: Yep
E: You know I always find it irritating
C: We get some really sort of random you know private emails as well, like you know I had that really funny one one night didn’t I? (1.5) Some weird American
E: It wasn’t trying to sell you anything was it?
C: No
E: You’re getting mixed up dear
C: This is not very good, you know? You can’t see pictures
E: We haven’t seen a good, we haven’t seen a very good site
C: The clothing section’s not in there even
E: What about a bookshop? Go and have a look
C: It’s hopeless
E: at Amazon then
(1.5)
C: What shall I do now?
E: Go up here and
LM: Yeah try
E: Try Amazon
C: Amazon yeah? What there?
E: Yeah www. Amazon.com
(2.0)
C: Sorry
E: You’ll need the www bit at the front
C: What the front?
E: Yeah
C: Dot com?
E: Yeah, but it’s A www, you’ve put your ‘a’ in the way, get your cursor out the way
C: Where’s the delete key? LM: Up there
C: Go that’s a really obscure ‘delete’ key
LM: Yeah it’s quite annoying
E: No you have to go back off the w’s
C: Dot? E: Yeah ‘A’ (.) ‘end’ dot com
C: Sorry, ‘end’?
(3.0)
E: Go and get (.) do you want to buy a book, or try and buy that um (.) you’ve bought a book today haven’t you?
C: Yeah
E: Why don’t you see if you can buy that on the Internet then? (…) Is this a book you found just  by perusing? C: Yeah in my cheap book shop
E: It’s quite hard to find a book by perusing on the Internet (.) you, I feel you more have to know what you want
LM: Mm
E: And go and get it
C: So what do I do? (.) type the title in?
E: Go to ‘books’ and see what it says
LM: Another thing about the kind of information-gathering, where they try to replicate (.) that by making tailored offers to you so
C: ‘book search’
LM: they know that you’ve consistently bought kind of you know, say twentieth century British fiction then they’ll try and tailor the site so that when they know that you’ve logged on as Liz Moor they’ll know that you know, they’ll know what you like and they can say ‘look at this’ or ‘so and so’s published this’ you know, ‘it’s now out in paperback’ or whatever (.) so it’s still kind of in-your-face advertising
E: Yeah
LM: But it’s supposedly tailored to your interests (.) the hope is that it will annoy you less (.) which it may or may not, but that it’s more likely to be kind of effective advertising rather than mass advertising where everybody gets
E: the same one
LM: an advert for say the latest Martin Amis novel then (.) you know if they know that you hate Martin Amis then they’re never going to (.) waste that
(3.0)
E: This book looks as though it’s been completely beaten up C
C: Yeah they’re all a bit second hand, I think that actually comes from India. It’s an Oxford-India sort of like, I think they’re printed in India
E: Well I think you’re right cause its price is three hundred and forty-five rupees (.) [laughs]
C: See this is the sort of thing I hate about like, you know you just get this absolute bloody nonsense coming up you know, you put that in and you get this rubbish (.) ‘Close matches for this search are (….) [laughs]
E: [laughs] They’ve tailored it you C
C: [laughs]
E: What have you put, ‘Divide and Quit’?
C: Yeah (.) it’s the title of the book
E: And the authors are like Penderell Moon (.) Vernon E Johnson
C: [laughs]
E: Andia Byer and Karen Tacey
C: No that’s matched to the title isn’t it (.) Useless
LM: Hm [laughs]
E: Yeah well, well you should search for an exact match on ‘Divide and Quit’ (.) where if you’ve let it search on ‘divide’ (.)
C: Oh because I put gaps in?
E: And or ‘quit’
C: Right what do I go now then? Go back
E: So you do
C: with the gaps yeah?
E: Exact title (.) no not get rid of the gaps just say exact (.) that must be it. So not, not just the different words
LM: You could try putting them in speech marks as well, around the whole thing
E: Yeah that’s, for some, for some of them yeah, so put quotes round it and then it will only look for it as a whole (.) ‘end’ is up there
C: Why use ‘end’ when you can do that nine times?
E: [laughs] Ye:s (.) Now search (.) I wonder if putting the ampersand in is important (2.0) [laughs]
LM: [laughs] Well I don’t know, that’s not good is it?
C: [laughs]
E: No
C: This is the sort of thing that just drives me mad
E: That really doesn’t work very well does it?
LM: No
E: I mean it’s nothing like it (.) absolutely nothing
C: Type, type in the ISBN
E: Yeah
C: Where is it? (3.0) Type it in there yeah?
E: 0195644220
(3.0)
C: [laughs] And it (.) can’t find it
LM: It’s a definite no really for that one [laughs] isn’t it?
E: We can forget that one (.) try something more normal (.) C try this ISBN (1.0) ISBN 0-
C: Hold on
LM: (…) oh no that’s just keywords isn’t it?
C: Trying to get back to (.) right okay
E: 0-563
C: What sort of dash?
E: Just an ordinary dash not an underscore (.) hyphen
C: Yep
E: 563 hyphen 20506 hyphen 7
(2.0) E: There we are it’s the correct book (.) which is (.) I don’t know how old this is, it was six quid, so that’s not very good price really, eleven dollars ninety-five, whereas for some of them you get a very good price on books don’t you?
LM: There’s now an Amazon.co.uk which means that (.) the delivery is less
E: Yeah
LM: Um
C: I know, I know
E: But, but the price of books often on this site are really, really excellent
C: Denzil tried this the other day actually, for his new book (.) put Denzil in and said they (…) something but he got them to update it 
E: Author, just put the author’s name in then (.) You can’t spell Denzil’s name (.) Do ‘exact name’ and then search
C: Oh I’d hate these things coming up as well an absolute waste of time
LM: Yeah you don’t have to
E: No but you don’t have to have that, you just change your security settings (.) but you don’t know what that means do you C?
C: Yeah they’ve got Denzil’s book here
E: Is that the new one?
C: Forty bloody dollars, no the old one
E: So where’s the, did you say he had a new one
C: Yeah but I don’t know what it is though (.) cause oh he’s got the customer review [laughs] 
LM: And it’s one star [laughs]
C: [laughs] Oh god he only got one star [laughs]
LM: [laughs]
E: C he’s only got one review
C: Yeah and that wasn’t very good (.) well he said he was furious
E: Can you read it?
LM: You should be able to if you scroll down (.) or maybe click on that I don’t know
E: Scroll down let’s see what they say about his book. Yes look
C: Oh
E: Go down a bit more ‘a reader from (…) Boston’
C: [laughs] Not very useful
E: Why is (…)?
C: Oh he’s told me this, it broke his heart this did (.) ‘seems to come primarily from an academic perspective’ (.) Not really, shouldn’t be really (.) Right okay [laughs]
E: [laughs]
LM: Are you going to write a more positive one?
C: I’m going to ring him tonight
LM: (…) with five stars
E: And tell him you’ve seen the review of his book [laughs]
C: Can we access a few of Pr and Sonia’s books
LM: Yeah
E: What do you, why are writing it in the middle of Denzil’s name?
LM: Why don’t we try Amazon.co.uk we might have more (.) you just go up there (.) it might make it a bit (.)
C: Sorry I’m
E: Up in the
LM: Just in the title bar here (2.0) Yeah if you just click there and just put 
C: Dot UK? E: No dear (.) you’re going to have to type it all in www
C: [gets up] I need another cup of tea
(7.0)
E: I’ve no idea what Pr’s other name is
C: Livingstone (.) no
LM: Lunt
C: Lunt
E: Why did you say Livingstone? [laughs]
C: That’s Sonia’s name
E: [laughs] Oh is it (.) Oh here they are, they’re here
C: How many stars have they got? [laughs]
E: They haven’t got any reviews
C: Fifty quid?
LM: It’s an awful lot of money isn’t it?
E: Very expensive (.) Oh look you can write in as the author and say (.) things that you want to about your books (2.0) We’ve got this one here as well, but I think this one’s turned up entirely by chance, because there’s somebody called Pr Biddy and somebody else called Ingrid Lunt but uh (.) there you go [laughs] A whole new world. Any other books you want
C: That’s a chaotic sub-division isn’t it or searching, I mean it must be so much like (.) space sort of like (.) just on rubbish like that you know
E: Do you want to er
C: Mix and matching
E: Search for anything else? But why is (…)
C: (…)
E: No
C: Thirty years out of print 
E: Ah
C: [laughs]
LM: Waterstone’s actually do an online out of print book, I don’t know if they do the search online but you enter the sort of particulars and it will find them cause I think I’ve bought an out of print book over the Net through the sort of you know, you send it off
E: Ah ha
LM: With the kind of specifications, and it emails you back and says you know
E: We’ve found it
LM: We’ve found it but it’s going to cost you this much
E: Yeah
LM: You know, and come back and you can buy it online
C: Oh that’s the way I found that book, yeah there’s some like, some of the (.) antiquarian book sellers, that’s right that’s why I found that historical research book
E: Mm
LM: Mm
C: Which was quite interesting but you know (.) they want a hundred and fifty quid for it
E: Which book was that? C: Records and ‘Brigade of Horse’
E: [laughs]
LM: [laughs]
C: It’s an old royal horse artillery book
LM: Okay
C: It was pretty amazing to find it
LM: Yeah
C: You know but they want ridiculous money for these old books
(3.0)
E: So this is (.) books on mortgages, but I think that these are going to be American-based (2.0) Yeah it’s all American I think (…) dot com
LM: So do you think this is going to take off then (.) Internet shopping
E: Eventually but you know I think it’s going to take some time until people have got a better um (.) coms links
LM: Hm
E: I think it’s too slow
LM: Mm
E: It’s boring you know, sitting around waiting for stuff you know, I mean okay it’s pretty dull sometimes going shopping, but at least you can get up and walk around, you can look at things you know you can see quickly (.) if what isn’t there, you can make a judgment in your head about alternatives immediately by the visuals, looking at the shelves
C: It’s not obvious either like um, like obviously for someone like E who works in IT like everything’s obvious but I mean to me it isn’t (.)
LM: Mm
C: I could look at a screen all day and not know how to go to the next move (.) I mean I sometimes in Ami Pro it’s like that still (.) with me 
E: Yeah maybe
C: [laughs] You know it isn’t obvious how you (.) I, oh I know I went into your computer one day, I turned your computer on in the early days when you’d shown me how to turn it on and not how to turn it off
E: [laughs] (…) tricky like that [laughs]
C: I couldn’t work out how (.) for the life of me, how to turn it off. In the end (.) you, you press on ‘start’
E: Yeah
C: Which is the exact opposite of what you’re looking for, you’re looking for ‘finish’
LM: [laughs]
C: You’re looking for, you’re looking at ‘exit’ aren’t you? Or ‘stop’
LM: Yeah
C: You know? As soon as you press on ‘start’ you then get a stop option, which is absolutely daft
LM: Yeah
C: So I think obviously all the, all these interfaces are written by techies and at some point they’ve got to have (.) somebody who’s a human to go into them
LM: Well this is partly what
C: and start (…) doing them
LM: this research is about in a way
E: But I mean
LM: because Tesco’s and Sainsbury’s in a way are a good example, where (.) a bunch of techies have said ‘what would be the easiest way to do it? Just tick a list’
C: They need a literary person to do it really, you need, you know you need a writer to do it really
E: No you need a shopper (.) you need a shopper, you need someone who’s going to come in and say what they want to see when they’re going to buy something
C: (…) have that expressed to them
LM: [laughs]
E: Yeah but they, no cause I want a picture (.) of a shelf of different tinned vegetables
C: [laughs] 
E: Or a picture of a different shelf of oils or salad dressings or whatever (.) you know I mean
LM: And maybe a writer to convey that [laughs]
E: But I mean the essence of the balsamic vinegar (…) 
LM: What is it about the experience with the balsamic vinegar in the shop
C: Can have something better than ‘making life taste better’ as well
LM: [laughs]
C: No but I mean these are all the same aren’t they? None of them are showing enough information, none of them are showing pictures and you, you really need pictures 
E: Yeah I think so
C: But it does need to be much quicker
E: Well I think also I mean (.) although you know you, obviously (.) at the moment with the kind of coms links people have got you couldn’t really have those pictures downloaded every single time, so you’d need an upfront CD with that stuff on it, you’d need very good um (.) updated links when you log on, so when you come to your tinned vegetables page (.) if for whatever reason the um (.) I don’t know the borlotti beans aren’t available you know that upfront, not choose borlotti beans
LM: Yeah
E: And then get told you can’t have it (.) cause obviously if you’re in a shop you can immediately see there’s no borlotti beans, so you can immediately make a, a choice then to have something different
LM: Yeah
E: And you wouldn’t want to go through all of this and then later on find that your um (.) bean dish was going to be ruined
LM: Yeah
(1.0)
C: So the hype and everything about the Internet’s like, you know, it’s well ahead of the actuality of what they’ve achieved with the damn thing yet
LM: Mm
E: Oh yeah but it’s (.) I think it’s going to make it though
C: Like you know, I mean like you know the historical research I mean a side of my very obscure interest which is pith helmets, I mean we did some general stuff on the Boer war like you know, you type in a Boer war general and like all you got was a (.) I don’t know all I got was a book shop in South Africa, and it was the only thing you got,  you know it didn’t lead on to anything really
LM: Yeah
C: You know and you know, it was hopeless
E: I’m interested in this new One account with Virgin (.) Have you heard about this? It’s based on the way that they’ve been doing it in Australia for a long time, where you have one account which deals with your mortgage, your savings, your monthly salary (.) you put it all in the same account and basically because all your money’s in there you earn a great deal more interest it means that everything
C: They can help themselves to all your spare money on a day-to-day basis and invest it in spots or futures and stuff
E: Everything that you um
C: [laughs]
LM: [laughs]
E: owe money on, instead of having a credit card
LM: Yeah
E: You take everything from this account so all of this currently the rate’s six point one percent (.) everything you owe money on is being paid at a mortgage type
C: [laughs] Just hope they can’t
E: (…)
C: Just hope they can’t get into the land registry [laughs] (…) mortgage of their own, called an eight eight eight account [laughs]
E: I think it’s quite interesting (1.5) if you do any, you can do an example thing yourself you know, which
LM: Some of the financial services pages aren’t bad apparently
E: No I, I think that er
C: But again that’s the sort of thing that you don’t need, you don’t need like visuals on that do you really? You don’t need pictures so
E: No
LM: You just want it to do the calculations and compare them all on one screen
E: But you do if you want to see some things, I mean the Barclays Bank thing gives you the equivalent of your bank statement
LM: Hm
E: And you still want it to look quite nice, you don’t, it conveys a lot more information to you if it looks nice like a printed bank statement than if it was just a spreadsheet with all the stuff just entered, you know, in equally sized cells or you know whatever
LM: Yeah
E: But you see you can go into an illustration here in this Virgin One account calculator
LM:  Hm
(4.0)
E: If it ever wakes up (.) der, der, der (5.0) So
LM: Ooh
E: We’ll say that the mortgage that we’re talking about is seventy-five thousand pounds alright?
LM: Mm hm
E: We’ll say that currently we’ve got three thousand pounds on credit cards, we don’t have a loan, we’ve got a five hundred pound overdraft nothing terrible (.) next (.) don’t need to, well maybe we want to do our kitchen out, we need another five thousand (.) oops not fifty thousand, that would be a bloody good kitchen
LM: [laughs] Kitchen of your dreams
E: Okay so how much is the house worth? Let’s say the house is worth a hundred and thirty thousand (2.0) Let’s say we’re borrowing, at the moment we’ve had our mortgage for a while so we only need it for twenty years (.) net monthly income let’s say it’s fifteen hundred, say we’re expecting a four percent pay rise (.) and we’ll need one percent of that (…) three thousand pounds worth of savings
C: Oh look they’ve got this right for us, haven’t they look
LM: [laughs]
E: I’m going to make up that we have a hundred pounds left over and then we go and do (.) next you’ll want to do (…) rate is six point two five (.) and we’ll say that it’s (…) I don’t know what’s the current rate at the moment? Any ideas? I can’t remember
C: Five and a half isn’t it? E: Is it? I think it’s more than that
C: Six
E: I’ll put six
LM: Hm
(3.0) E: It’s saying that with those things in a Virgin One account (.) it could save you interest of forty-eight thousand pounds over the possible term (.) um (.) what that’s, four hundred and fifty, four hundred and fifteen pounds to pay off a seventy-five thousand pound mortgage is quite a, a, exactly what you would be paying
LM: Mm hm
E: That’s if you’re an interest-only mortgage, if you had a repayment mortgage it could save you twenty-five thousand and allow to repay eight years earlier (1.5) Now quite a few people I work with have been looking into this and I think this is something that could um (.) could be really advantageous, and apparently this is the kind of system they use a lot in Australia from what I’ve heard, what people have told me, where you just put everything into one account so your interest is calculated always every single day (.) so if at the beginning of the month you’ve had your salary paid in, for three days there’s some money
LM: Mm
E: [laughs]
LM: [laughs] Yeah no I can see the advantage of that [laughs]
E: Yeah you know you get paid interest on it, which over, over the years mounts up to something
LM: Yeah
E: I’m going er (.) look for (.) I actually had a look at this last night and er (.) I’ve got you know, I asked for a brochure to be sent to me by filling on the form you know on the Internet, obviously that’s going to come by post (.) hm it’s quite interesting
LM: Yeah
E: Because I, I mean this is something that I find so tedious, financial stuff like this, and I would never make an, you know, the idea of going into a bank or talking to somebody or you know make an appointment
LM: Mm
E: I’ve got a financial advisor but only for you know simple things like um a few AVCs for the pension, that kind of thing. He phones me up and tries to meet with me about twice a year and I put it off and off and off and off because I just don’t want to know really, I’m not interested (.) I realise one should be more responsible about financial things (.) and er you know I’ve, this kind of way of being able to dip into it if you want to have a look at it and, at the time when you want to, not having to go to an appointment, mull over it because you just don’t understand what it’s saying to you (.) um is quite helpful I think
LM: Yeah (.) and it’s the sort of thing you could do (.) for twenty minutes and then just (.) you know let it sit there until you wanted to go 
E: Yeah
LM: And explore it further
E: Yeah (.) well I quite like this sort of site and I think this is, you know for what it’s doing, okay it’s not shopping in the same way in that it doesn’t have to show you a picture of a mortgage document or whatever (.) but it’s quite nicely laid out and it seems to be quicker between pages
LM: Mm hm
E: You know, whereas those other (.) there’s still, the shopping sites where you’re actually buying something are too slow
LM: Yeah
E: Much much too slow (.) and they’re not visual enough (.) so it’s not very, you know it’s not really very encouraging
LM: Okay
E: Have you ever bought anything over the Internet? You haven’t have you?
C: No
E: No
LM: And is there anything you think you would? You don’t sort of sound (.)
C: Well I wouldn’t mind ‘The Brigade of Horse’
LM: [laughs]
E: No but C I mean you’ve, you’ve bought motorcycle gear mail order from um (.) distant places haven’t you like Wales or wherever
C: I wouldn’t do it again
E: You might have just, yeah but if it had been okay you might just as well do that by the Internet as do it by anything else (.) What was wrong with what you got? C: It was that seat, remember? It took six months before we got it
E: Oh yeah that was a bit unfortunate
C: It was unbelievable. It was this bunch, this bunch (.) who made themselves out to be so bloody slick (.) it took, it took literally three months to get a motorcycle seat off them
LM: (…) took ages to arrive
C: Same bunch [laughs]
LM: They debited my account twice
E: Yeah
LM: They didn’t fit, they were definitely not the right size. Absolutely the worst catalogue experience ever
C: I was on the phone for weeks (.) and they’d, you know, they were Welsh as well
LM: [laughs]
C: Everyone you spoke to 
E: No the problem was
C: was bloody Welsh
E: You got a
C: and they had this computer system which said they had four seats and [laughs] when they actually went to look (...) there were no bloody seats and everyone would come up with a different story, everyone was looking in finding one seat, or two seats or whatever. They were saying they’d sent them (.) and every damn thing. Oh god it drove me absolutely
LM: Yeah
C: I mean I must have spent pounds and pounds on phone calls (.) I had to send one back, they sent one and it had a cut in it
E: That’s right yeah
C: They said ‘oh funny you sent that back cause that’s the only one we had’
LM: [laughs]
E: Obviously everyone else was thinking that
C: we thought you had four but (…) I said ‘oh god if I’d realised it was the only one you had I would have accepted it’. We could just have put sticky tape over the hole
E: [laughs] Yeah, difficult
LM: Frustrating
E: But also you know you can’t be sure on a situation like that, you know you could save money just by sending an email but obviously someone’s got to respond to that email
LM: Hm
E: And I must say when I was um trying to find a hotel to stay in in Hong Kong, the hotels were very good at responding to the emails, giving you the information that you wanted, and then you know when it was narrowed down to a couple of them I was just trying to find certain things out and they were very good at responding, kind of overnight type thing
LM: Yeah
E: So if I sent something one day, by the time I got to work they would have responded
LM: Yeah
E: And it would be there, which is, it’s important
LM: I suppose it’s in their interest to. Another thing I suppose is about building brands online and which, you know, who you’d be likely to buy from in the early days, sort of building up a kind of
E: Can you imagine what the Wickes website would be like C? [laughs] If Wickes are anything like stores [laughs]
C: How can they build in the rudeness? [laughs]
E: [laughs]
C: [laughs] (…)
E: [laughs] Yeah how would they manage it? Just wouldn’t be the same without that
C: [to LM] Have you ever been to Wickes? 
LM: No I don’t think so
E: It’s, it’s like a
C: It’s like a DIY you know
LM: A DIY thing
C: It’s a really basic DIY store and they must pay (.) peanuts for the people who work there
E: They are awful
C: So rude
E: You know you get these kind of sort of smiley happy faces at Homebase you know who run around in their green and orange
LM: Overalls
E: Doing whatever they can for you (.) whereas in Wickes you know god (.) they ignore you, they stare, you know they stare at anything rather than look at a customer
C: The only worse place I’ve ever been was Moscow airport in the days of communism
LM: [laughs] They were unhelpful too were they? [laughs]
C: [laughs] That was worse than workers at (…)
E: [laughs]
(2.0)
LM: Right I’ll get off this now
(1.5) 
C: So how many people are you having to interview for this project then?
LM: Well we’ve interviewed about thirty-five but we’ve got a few more left to do
C: You don’t structure it at all, you just waiting for us
LM: Not really, no
C: to make comments and like (.) see what we think of it, yeah?
LM: Yeah I mean the idea is really to see how these kinds of services might fit into people’s lives and not really ask them a set of questions
C: Right
LM: We could do that at college. We’re more interested in people’s shopping and domestic habits, what kinds of specific things you might be interested in, which are usually quite personal you know, quite unique things
E: I like the idea of Internet shopping (1.0) I just don’t think it’s there yet
LM: Yeah
E: And er
LM: So it’s the technology that’s letting it down at the moment? E: Yeah it’s not fast enough (.) and I think the website design’s a problem too, you want (.) I want to see what I might be buying. I don’t care if it’s a tin of baked beans (.) a representation of, of a shelf full of stuff and then you just click on it wouldn’t you and just say what you wanted rather than go through a boring old list you know
LM: But do you think that it could ever replicate that kind of supermarket experience, where you’re really there kind of surrounded, where you do very quick visual (.) kind of scanning, where you (.) have to physically kind of navigate space? (2.0) I mean I sort of sometimes suspect that it’s completely different
C: (…)
LM: that you’re learning a new set of skills completely maybe, that the skills that you have as a consumer 
E: Mm
LM: Kind of knowing exactly what things are, what brands mean, where they are relative to each other are kind of skills that are actually no help whatsoever
E: Hm, yeah
LM: And maybe you have to really want to kind of learn to do it differently, to go for this
E: I suppose they could you know take you to the er cash bit on here and then have all the sweets lined up there couldn’t they? LM: Yes [laughs]
E: So that you could be forced into buying something
LM: That’s some of the most postive feedback I’ve had about the shopping sites (.) a lot of people saying you don’t have to be kind of prey to four different family members putting things in the trolley and not knowing how much you’ve spent (.) maybe having a bit more control over
E: I think maybe also an option to choose (.) either a weekly or fortnightly or monthly set of goods that you always want so you, so your shopping list can be started off by Tesco’s
LM: That can be done
E: You know so that you could do, oh so that’s already available
LM: So you can have a basic shopping list
E: Yeah
LM: And then a kind of extended ‘dinner party’ shopping list, or an occasional nothing-to-do-with-my-normal-shopping shopping list that sort of thing
E: Mm mm (.) I think for heavy stuff you know it would really be, if they’re delivering it would be a really good system (.) and I think it would be, it would be very good for (.) furniture places like Ikea or um Habitat to be on the Internet, you know showing their stuff (.) Certainly Ikea’s service (.) over the telephone that kind of thing is terrible
LM: Yeah, yeah just trying to get a catalogue out of them
E: Absolutely terrible, so I mean (.) a website would surely be able to improve
LM: [laughs]
E: What people are able to see
LM: Yeah definitely. And if you’ve got it in conjunction with the catalogue as well then (.) not having to go there
E: And they could have interesting fun things on there, like your own kitchen planner, so you can work that kind of thing, which would be quite nice. You know, you put in the dimensions of your room (.) and then it can you know, you can just sort of mark where your windows are roughly and then there you are, designing your kitchen
LM: Yeah and that doesn’t require such a good (.) baud rate or whatever
E: Yeah
LM: You know it doesn’t require the same technology to do something like that
E: No
LM: But it’s that real added value service
E: Yes
LM: That provides something
E: Hours of fun [laughs]
LM: [laughs]
E: Yeah I think that sort of thing would be quite useful (.) and you know, things like (.) wine or big heavy goods, beers things like that would be very easy to use (.) the Internet for. But when it comes to things like (.) fresh fruit and vegetables I don’t trust them
LM: Hm
E: You know you could look at a bag of salad on a supermarket shelf with a sell by date of one or two days, you have to pick it up and look at the bag to see whether it’s been kept somewhere too cold (.) and all the salad’s gone slimy
LM: Hm
E: You’ve got to check that, and um (.) I just can’t see anybody bothering to do that [laughs] on your behalf if they’re just picking for you
LM: Hm well ironically they’re probably doing it that best at the moment because they need to. I don’t know, people seem to be quite happy with what they’re getting at the moment, but you can imagine a scenario when (.) you know half of the store’s customers are doing it remotely then (.) and it’s the full time job of (.)
E: People can run around
LM: Eight hours a day is to do it and they’re not going to
E: Oh yeah nightmare
LM: Use the same care
E: Ooh nightmare, you get tested on whether you know which aisle the baked beans are in and, oh my god I mean [laughs] Oh dear. I mean there are other things like that, I don’t know if Pr and Sonia still belong to it but they were (.) at one time and our neighbours here definitely still are into organic box schemes
LM: Mm
E: Which isn’t a web-based thing, although it can be as I say I’ve looked at organic schemes on the web, and you just register then to have um you know a job lot delivered to you, and I think you if you’ve got other requirements from your fruit and vegetables, like the fact that they’re organic, then you’ll perhaps put up with the fact that you don’t always get quite what you want (.) um in fact you don’t usually know what you’re getting
LM: Yeah
E: Apart from the basic staples
LM: Okay (1.0) Oh I was wondering why it wasn’t doing anything [laughs]
E: I’ve unplugged it (.) is that okay?
LM: Yeah that’s fine
E: I thought you wanted it on again
LM: No no
E: No that’s fine
LM: I was just wondering why the mouse wasn’t working
E: Ah [laughs]
LM: It’s cause it’s the other one (2.0) Okay well that’s great. Thank you that’s been (.) really helpful
E: Good



Ut35

User trial 35, 5.8.99, C2DE single woman 36-55, High IT

LM: Is it alright if I record us? I just want to
H: Yeah
LM: Check what sites we’ve looked at and things like that (2.0) So can I just ask you what sort of, what you know about computers, what do you, you’ve got a computer here? H: Yes we’ve got a Pentium two
LM: Right
H: Um well [laughs] initially I mean it’s, it was used for accounts
LM: Right
H: Um writing letters, cause we’ve got all the, we’ve got the scanners and the um printer. There’s email, faxes
LM: Right
H: Um and then we got a server, which was Demon (.) but we’re not satisfied with that
LM: That’s the screensaver, I’ll turn that down [laughs] (2.0) Right okay so you weren’t happy with Demon? H: No so at the moment we’re in the process of um changing server
LM: Right
H: We’ve got AOL (1.5)
LM: Okay (3.0) So do you and your son use (.) I mean, do you both use it for work things, personal?
H: Um (1.5) Sometimes when um there’s something that you need to know about (.) like if it comes up and gives you the er Internet details to get through to it
LM: Yeah
H: And um we tried going through that, like surfing
LM: Hm
H: And that but I’m not very technical minded, and I get a little bit scared [laughs] when I want to go into things and I’m afraid to press the wrong buttons quite occasionally
LM: Yeah
H: But er say something silly like wanting to find out what’s going on in Eastenders
LM :Yeah
H: You know you just dial up that sort of thing and have a sort of a sift through um (.) places like Asda, see what the latest is, save going all the way down to Asda [laughs] going through like that. My um son he uses for mainly the chat line
LM: Right
H: Which is the er America Online
LM:  Yeah
H: And he’s got quite a few buddies around the world actually (.) that he deals with (.) And mine’s just local [laughs] Cause I don’t give me age out to anyone [laughs]
LM: [laughs] You make up a whole new persona
H: Yeah (.) um my daughter she uses it occasionally. We’ve gone through a, when she wanted to learn her um different languages (.) we’ve got the discs that er come up and that, we got them via the Internet as well, so if you want to buy anything
LM: So like language software for learning
H: That’s right she’s done er, done German (.) and er she’s got a bit of Spanish as well
LM: Okay
H: So (.) it’s okay, at the moment it’s playing up (.) so he hooked me up to the old one for a little while, cause when I’m bored I just play on the games. Even the Internet games, you know
LM: Yeah yeah
H: where you dial up and you play um Twenty One or crib or something with someone else
LM: Oh that’s great, I knew you could play some of the big games and big group things, I didn’t know you could like play cards with people online
H: Oh yes
LM: Great
H: But as I said he’s had to download, so at the moment everything is er on the backup because he’s having problem with um Time, that’s where the PC was bought from 
LM: Yeah
H: And things are crashing, he’s only just got it, so he can’t really get into 98 (.) We’ve always had 95 and 98 now and then has a bug in it (1.5)
LM: Right (.) I think this has got 98 on it [laughs]
H: Well it may be the computer (.) Um he got this new one in February (.) and er it’s been off to (.) have a look at it, they’ve sent it back and it’s still, they haven’t done anything, it’s exactly the same (.) so at the moment I’m just playing games
LM: Right (.) and so long’s he had the computer? And how long have you both had access to the Internet?
H: Must be two and a half years now
LM: And (.) what was the incentive? Just fancied getting, seeing what it was all about? H: He came out of the navy (.) and he took a computer course
LM: Right okay
H: And that’s what he wanted to do as a job so he (.) first job he got he (.) was given a PC, a monitor, to buy his own mother board and you know the bits and pieces that go in and he’s built, he built his own first computer
LM: Oh that’s impressive
H: So that’s how he started, but it was very basic and it was 95 (.) and he just bought it really for um as I said accounts, his own personal accounts (.) and then he got AOL (.) in my name [laughs] and then he started the chatting
LM: Right
H: And then he got Outlook Express and you know World (.) World Net or something, those bits and pieces [laughs]
LM: So now he’s sort of
H: Yes well his last phone bill was a hundred fifty odd pound [laughs]
LM: Oh god
H: And that is all (.) all that is, cause as I said his phone is (.) er with the computer here. Now maybe (.) ten pound of that is calls, so you can imagine it is used quite a lot
LM :Yeah sure
H: And as he says, during the day it’s sort of a little bit taboo (.) so it’s evenings and weekends that it’s used. So they’re always there, even if you can’t sort of get through to anyone, always there (.) except Demon. They’re never there [laughs] They never answer [laughs]
LM: And so (.) would you say that you’ve just got into it through him, or did you kind of know about the Internet, I mean the
H: No (.) that was via him
LM: no one at work or other friends or anything?
H: No when I used to work with computers it was just a computer that did a specific job
LM: Yeah
H: It wasn’t (.) I did accounting, so I dealt with it just basically for that, so it was a computer built for that company
LM: So like a lot of people’s experience of computers at work really
H: Yeah 
LM: Yeah okay
H: I mean he’s a bit fussy sometimes when I go on it, cause he knows I press wrong buttons and can’t get out of it, and I have crashed it a few times [laughs] myself
LM: Well it’s not you is it?
H: Well it should be idiot-proof [laughs]
LM: Well yeah [laughs] And so (.) in terms of the Internet I mean (.) what else do you look at, what else do you do apart from games and um, I mean is it just um information about really anything that
H: Well (.) there’s a lot of things come up on the television (.) and they give you a www dot co you know whatever
LM: So like (…) they do increasingly online? H: Yes (.) and we found also we got Encarta (.) and that is ever so good. We actually get neighbours come in with little ones that are at school, saying ‘oh can you look up…’ on such-and-such a queen or king or animal or something you know, and we put the disc in and bring it up (.) that’s been pretty good
LM: Yeah
H: Um other than that (.) really it’s just (.) trial and error (.) you know, or what’s on at the cinemas, that’s another one, or holidays 
LM: Right okay
H: So basically it’s used for (.) a multitude of sins [laughs]
LM: Right (.) and I mean, have you ever bought anything online? Do you know anything about sort of shopping sites?
H: Er (.) no um got the bank account, that’s about the only thing that is sort of (.) transferrable, you know that you can sort of do on that 
LM: Yeah
H: And yes have bought, but have bought software (.) via it. So literally if I, if I went into Asda, I haven’t gone for the buy and see if you can get it sent home [laughs]
LM: Yeah (.) but you’ve looked and seen what they’ve got? H: Yes, yes
LM: Okay (.) and how did you find buying software? I mean was that, well I suppose it’s just you enter your credit card number? H: That’s right, yeah
LM: And it just downloads and installs?
H: Yes um (.) that was (.) on the Demon side (.) the AOL now that he’s, he’s, I haven’t really been into it that much (.) Occasionally (…) come up with it and go through a search (.) cause I like doing dried flowers
LM: Right okay
H: For displays and that (.) so I’ve been on that and looked for the local ones to see if (…) stock or (.) and mainly it’s um, sometimes it’s just for addresses 
LM: Yeah okay (.) so the website might be quite simple thing with a phone number
H: Yes so you can either ring, or go and see if they’re local, go and see them. Cause sometimes you can’t always see what the item is on the computer, they can tell you they’ve got them, but (.) you know it might not be quite what you want
LM:  So you have to call (1.5) So what, I mean what would your sort of first impressions of shopping online be? Something you’d want to do?
H: Er (.)
LM: What do you imagine it’s like?
H: I should imagine if um (.) if you can’t get out very much then I would think that that would be a boon (.) if you could use the Internet to do all your bits and pieces that you would normally have to get someone to give you a lift (.) somewhere or you know catch a bus. Um (.) there’s not many people I would say that would be young and infirm, but the old and infirm (…) bit awkward cause it’s easy to learn something when you’re younger, but (.) you learn the first two bits and then you’ve forgotten the first one again when you’ve learned the third, you know, so it’s trial and error
LM: Yeah
H: And keep going into the same thing all the time
LM: Right
H: But erm  yes I think (.) mainly it’s (.) news (.) finding out where it is, what it is, chatting with other people. Um shopping, as I said (.) my son’s done mainly via the web, I haven’t had a chance to (…) [laughs] cause it might end up in the north pole (.) with me (…)
LM: So he’s bought stuff over the Internet?
H: Yeah
LM: Okay
H: And it’s come, it’s come through you know a couple of days later. He’s had to send some back (.) buy then that’s (.) um sort of thirty day trial sort of thing
LM: Okay
H: Which is okay
LM: Alright (.)
H: Um I haven’t actually bought, I’ve just surfed it
LM: Okay (.) well um shall we have a look at some shopping sites?
H: Yep
LM: Cause that’s what I’d like you to have a go at
(13.0)
H: So many different servers as well now
LM: Mm
H: Don’t know, we might try the Virgin (.) or Time (.) they’ve got a new one come out (3.0) (…) This is um (.) the actual bit, the modem and everything that’s
LM: Oh that’s the booklet magazine thing that comes with the
H: That’s what they’ve sent through (.) with er, this is where he bought it from Time and they present a free (.) thing with it to try and put you on the Internet
LM: Okay
H: But whether we will or not (2.0) (…) telephone cable [laughs]
LM: (….) Right okay, what’ve we got on here? Amazon (.) have you heard of Amazon?
H: Amazon (.) yes, I have heard of it
LM: It’s the big bookshop
H: Yes
LM: Um started off in the States, they’ve now got a British
H: They’ve, er they advertise it on the er radio
LM: Probably
H: Amazon, yeah
LM: Yeah
H: Saying they’ve got so many books
LM: Yep (.) er CDNow is a music site, a music and video site
H: Mm hm
LM: Based in the States (.) um what else have we got? Marks and Spencer, although you can’t really do shopping on that just yet
H: Ooh that would be handy, Railway timetables [laughs]
LM: Yeah
H: (…) got Sainsbury’s there shopping centre
LM: Sainbury’s, Tesco, Body Shop
H; Cause at Asda (.) have their own one and I was looking through that
LM: Can you um buy, can you get home delivery from the Asda one?
H: I didn’t go as far as that in, I was just looking at the um specials
LM: Okay
H: At Yahoo!
LM: Okay (.) but um (.) so what do you fancy starting off with? Books, CDs, groceries?
H: Um (.) not really the er books, cause I’ve got the er Reader’s Digest thing
LM: Mm hm
H: So er (.) we could go onto the um (.) like the Sainsbury’s or Tesco’s one (.) see if it does
LM: Okay let’s try the Tesco’s one then
(17.0)
LM: Okay so that’s the homepage, but um

Ut37

UT 37, ABC1, High IT. single male

P: Interviewer
E: Interviewee

P: What is your experience of computers and of the Internet?

E: I’ve been using computers since I was at school. They had Apple Macs, the big lumpy ones with the black and white screen.  And then they graduated to colour ones which were like PCs. My dad always had one at home so I’ve sort of grown up with them really.

P: What about the Internet, do you use it?

E: I do use the Internet. At the moment I’ve got a connect in Halls which has been really useful because I’m not very organised I tend to think, ’oh I should have got that book or something and you can actually get to the library on the Internet. And I use email every day. I don’t do much else on it, I must do!  I occasionally go shopping, I s’pose, I’ve used Amazon. IT was brilliant. Where I live, at home, there are hardly any good bookshops so if I wanted to get books, text books, I had to order them. They were faster than they said they were going to be and cheaper.

P: So you haven’t used any other shopping sites?

E: No, I haven’t.

P: You talked about the specific use of getting into the library. Do you browse at all?

E: I used to. You know when it first came out, I used to browse.  You’d get your search engine and type in something and you wouldn’t get what you wanted or what you were expecting and it would take up so much time so I just don’t generally bother any more. Unless I know there is a website I can go to and I’ve got that down, then I do it. That’s the only way I go round the Internet.

P: Other than Amazon.com, what have you heard about electronic commerce, shopping over the Internet?

E: Well, it’s the way forward apparently. All the sunday magazines shout at you. Every advert you see has got www. I don’t know how I feel about it. Love the idea of food shopping on the Internet, it’s one of the things I am very bad about. I love the idea of actually sitting down and thinking about it rather than wandering aimlessly around the aisles, but the logistics of that, how that would work, would you have to be in at a certain time to have it delivered. And it’s the same for other things such as buying clothes, I mean great idea, go and find the exact pair of black trousers you want. But you won’t be able to feel them or see how well they fit, so there are drawbacks. For instance, I was thinking of buying tickets over the Internet, airline tickets, and train tickets are available now, but I haven’t got round to doing it.

P: And you think you will at some point?

E: Yes.

P: And is it partly because you can’t access machines in halls?

E: Yes.

P: Do you think if you had your own machine it would be different?

E: It probably would. I wouldn’t feel so bad about using it.  At the moment I feel bad about using it because I should be doing something else. 
It’s for work really; I should be reading or anything, something to take up my time. But I’ll probably explore more of the shopping aspect of it.

P: What have you heard about shopping on the Internet. You’ve already talked about it being in the press alot.

E: There’s all the ’can’t use your credit card’.

P: What do you think of that.

E: Well, you give your credit card to someone over the counter and that is seen as safe enough.

P: Do you think there are different issues of security on the Internet?

E: Yes, actually, when I’m using public machines and for instance iIve ordered books and I’ve thought OK I’ve ordered that now. But you can use the back button and you can get all your details which is a bit of a worry. I phoned them up about it and they said you have to go to the home page and then sign in again and it wipes it all.  That’s a bit of a worry but that’s merely opportunist that someone would sit down after you and look at it. I’m not actually sure about how someone would intercept your details which is just as well I suppose because that would probably worry me more.

P: Do you think that’s possible?

E: I’m sure it’s possible.  But I’m sure it would be in the transfer from your computer to their computer rather than it being someone getting access to their computer. You can read whole reams of stuff about the security they have got on their system.s 

P: But you still think there might be ways into it, information being intercepted?

E: I’m sure there is a way you could somehow do it.

P: And what about particular web-sites that do trading, have you heard about any?

E: The auction places?

P: The auction ones, yes.

E: I don’t understand that. Um good idea I suppose. But then they say you get this modem for four dollars or whatever and then you go and have a look (I haven’t had a look) and then I think there must be horrendous postage added on so it’s not going to be that much of a saving. And also how do you get to check the quality of these things. I suppose if it’s a reputable enough brand hen I would feel like trusting them more. It doesn’t interest me, frankly, because I’m more focussed on something rather than looking for a bargain. It would seem like a waste of time.

P: Do you go to auctions in real life?

E: No. I’ve been once, I don’t know when it was. It was the most dull thing, I just wanted to leave.

P: Shall we have a look at some sites and see what you think.

E: What’s smarmy Internet like?

P: Would you like to have a look at that, go on then.

E: You see I’ve heard all about this, that’s what I’d be interested in ( ) because I tend to check my balance on the phone.

P: What do you think of the site?

E: It’s very flashing, isn’t it?!

(indistinguishable converstation about the site for a while, lots of sirens)

E: it’s not as quick going in and depositing it, I couldn’t get my instant grant cheque paid in. I suppose it is all to do with (...) your transfer between accounts.

P: I think you can probably do that if you have more than one account.

E: And the credit cards are supposed to be good. The Egg one is like 9% so that’s... wow!

P: Is that better than you thought?

E: £2,000? That’s much better.  I wonder what the details are.

(Interrupted by phone call)

General talk about the particular site.

E: Maybe it’s the website or maybe it’s the screen but I don’t like their font.

P: It’s very uninspired.

E: And also some of the ones, the frames don’t have this scroll bar. It looks a bit thrown together.

P: It’s also a bit fussy.

E: Yes, I could have done without having to have to scroll up and down to look at these things.

P: The pictures are nice 

E: Yes exactly.

P:  but they are not really signifying anything, they don’t tell you anything about the content.

E: They are nice, but not relevant. They are not icons, really.  And also this annoys me, someone will set up a new company and will give it a childish new name because we all need to escape the horrors of everyday life so we call it ’Go’ or ’Egg’ or marbles.

P: Yes, they are all single syllable.

E: I don’t know...

P: Would you have preferred it to have been just the Cooperative Bank Online?

E: The thing is I suppose I’m a sucker for these things as well.  If it annoys me I’ll look at it, but if it’s just the Cooperative Bank online I’ll just go ’oh that’s nice’.  For instance, I got a mailshot from Oxfam who had come together with Yahoo! to give you free Internet access.  Now I would go with that completely but you look at everything else and it’s ’get a free 100 minutes or something’ so you do tend to get sucked into that. But I’d much rather the money that they are getting by me going online or looking at the adverts should go to charity.

P: I think that is how it works, by being the ISP and making the links for things like e-commerce, that is how they are going to make the money for charity.

Shall we try some different sites?  There are some other banks on-line which are slightly different.

I’m just going into the Consumers Association website.  So far we have just been talking about shops online but there is this other side to consumption which is the campaigning side.  What do you think about that in relation to the Internet?

E: If everything is physical and out there, you can’t really compare it but if there is some way to go around the web and have a look at everything (distracted by the screen)  I think they are just trying to show off in Java!

P: OK, so this is the Consumer Association’s thing. 

E: At least they have got a nice font 

Yes, actually if I’m not impressed straight away, then I’m not likely to stay around very long.

P: So it doesn’t grab you, really?

E: No.

P: Let’s have a look at it though because I want your reaction to it!

E: Wow..that’s a good idea. 

P: So they campaign...

E: For Armadillo...?

P: Do you want to see it?

E: Yes  not immediately obvious.

P: What is it then? Oh, I see, it’s a sort of chat with an expert. Where you can chat with other people interested in campaigns.

E: You know, it has never appealed to me, talking to people online.

P: Using the chat room?

E: Yeah.

P: Maybe we should have a look at that and see what people are saying.

E: Yes...I just have a horrible picture of the type of people who do that.

P: Ah  we can’t do this as people on open access, you have to be a subscriber to join in their chat. So we’re not going to join in their chat! What do you think about that?

OK, they are giving us a 30 day free trial if we want to do it but we don’t want to do that..

E: You have to be terribly discerning otherwise you end up having so many different free trials and contractual obligations to everyone.

P: This is what you can buy off them.  Here’s something; they’ve got a web trader scheme where they are trying to basically to become kite-marked by them.

E: I don’t like the logo, it’s a bit austere, almost like a warning light..

P: Whereas in fact it is trying to be a sign of trust.  What do you think of this idea of having trusted third parties like the Consumers Association who will guarantee...

E: Yes, I think that is great, but this idea here of someone here.. I mean they are basically being paid, aren’t they, for the fact that they are going to have their links.

P: I suppose so because presumably there will be a list of traders and will get linked to them...

E: Yeah, but I suppose they have to conform to a code..

P: Shall we have a look at it.. 

E: Ah... well hang on that’s actually quite a good idea, I wouldn’t have looked at that because I would have just got turned off by...

P: That’s interesting, so you wouldn’t have come here if I hadn’t said come and have a look at it.

E: Yes, and also the first thing was you went to have a look at it and it was’ do you want to be one of these people/companies who is part of the scheme( )

P: I think the principle here is they are trying to (..) the self-regulations with real shopping to the Internet.

E: I thought there was just as good regulation anyway.   that you couldn’t trade regardless of  whether it was on the Internet or in a shop..

P: If you have a UK location that is true..

E: Ahh...

P:  but if you are trading from abroad, which you could easily be, on the Internet, then it is not shall we hvae a look and see who is on it 

(waiting for the link)

P: What do you think about this?  What kind of companies are joining up to this scheme? 

E: Well, you read alot about the start-up ones... these ones are seriously going for it, they are trying to create an online brand and they are going about it through all these different means and obviously people want to be secure that we can.. that nothing will go wrong.  And I suppose it is better for them on their own website that they have the Which? name on it than rather having (I wouldn’t necessarily go to Which?)... if I was trying to make a choice between different places to buy something, I think I would probably take account of the Which? name.

P: So this is food...

E: This is all out of my price range french hampers, gourmet world... ahh, Iceland...

P: There’s one that isn’t!  Otherwise, it is interesting that Iceland have done that, but aren’t they all relatively small and start-up companies?

E: Maybe people don’t want to just have to rely on Which? Iceland doesn’t have a great (...)

P: Is it that, or is it that they don’t want to conform to this set of codes.  I mean, that is the problem with codes, unless you agree to it all you’re not going to go online.

Let’s say that consumption is an important balance between the rights of the consumer campaigning on this side of it and the marketing side of the consumption side of it. Do you think that balance is going to be affected by more and more trading being done online or will it not affect it much?

E: The Internet was seen as this free place where it was breaking boundaries and now it seems to be more of a corporate shopping area. I think people were thinking what was the use of it to begin with, and now they have found a use for it. In that was it seems to almost restrict the use of the Internet with all these people coming in online to a big website what was the question, again?

P: Well, it’s about the idea that there is a sort of balance of power between the consumer and the producer and the retailers. Do you think this does anything to alter the balance of power. On the consumer side you have the right not to buy and you have campaigning, and on the production side you have marketing techniques?

E: I suppose with a physical shop you actually go in and you don’t think, oh no, I’m not going to go in here they do animal testing or something, walk out, go 20 minutes down the road to the next shop which probably doesn’t have the same products you are looking for.  Whereas there is always the home button on there which is like OK this doesn’t have what I want and I’ll go somewhere else. And because of that you are wondering what they are going to create to make you stay longer, trap you to go into this thing, which is a bit of a worry.

P: How do you think they are going to do that?

E: It is with the free ISPs, where you see free access, etc, etc, and then you get the home page which is full of adverts and free services spin-offs like Marbles... but, still, they haven’t restricted that much because you can always just, I assume, change the homepage, and quickly go off and do something else. And also, I use HotMail, and sometimes when you log out of it, it takes you directly to the Microsoft Network homepage so that is a back door way of making you look at it. It is almost like you are trying to protect your personal information and then they shove you straight into this thing.  That was almost trading on a pier(?)... ’don’t do this’, ’don’t look at this’, and people look at your e-mails. It’s a bit of a worry. I can’t see how they will do it otherwise.

P: Have you heard of issues like personalisation in websites?

E: Yes, for instance the same websites, you can customise your own page like customise your page with a whole load of rubbish like horoscopes.. I mean the news for instance.  It is a choice though, but it is a restricted choice like what they will allow you to..

P: That is one aspect of personalisation, allowing people to customise their own web page but what about other aspects..

E: Oh, you mean sending things to you. Mmmm, I   Amazon have started doing this to me and I thought it might be quite interesting.  They sent me a whole load of rubbish about children’s books and, because I said I was interested in awards, they sent me the Booker Prize, and then the Smarties/Nestle prize and all this stuff I wasn’t interested in so I said I wasn’t interested, I didn’t want it anymore. I mean, there was a problem there, and if they don’t get it right I send them an email saying don’t send it anymore.

P: But they are not getting it right to start with.

E: No, but the thing is how they would get it right would be by close monitoring of my interests and so on. I’m not sure I’m too happy about that.

P: But strategically, if they want to bind people in... if it becomes what the Internet is supposed to be in a sense, a completely open space where you can find the best deals  

E: Yes, but also you have invested in this company, for instance, and they are targeting your needs well, but also they are not supplying a particular product, that is supplied by another company, and then you have got the trade off of ’well, I’ve got to go through a whole learning process with them’...

P: So if they can use these techniques of personalisation and so on...

E: Isn’t that what they call ’cookies’?

P: Yes.

E: Now, if you had your own cookies on your own web browser rather than some elsewhere on a different site, then you can say these are tastes, you are going into somewhere saying these are my tastes, I wouldn’t have a problem with that.

P:That would be alright?

E: Yeah, that would be OK.

P: Well, actually, cookies are stored on your own...

E: Are they?

P: Yes.

E: You see, they alterthe adverts you see, don’t they?

P: Well, yes they could be used for that. They are used for navigation primarily but they could be used for ...where are we... I can’t find them on here 

E: And if it was obvious what was in them as well, rather than being created automatically like ’he’s looked at this website three times he obviously likes that. Rather than saying these are my interests and what I particularly want other people to target me about.

P: It is actually stored on your hard drive. As I say, that is mainly for navigation information at the moment.  But, yes, you were suggesting that that could be elaborated on. So you feel you have read something about that?

E: Yes, they were saying that they target you mostly. It was how they were getting that information about you, whether you were being open saying ’I am looking for a car at the moment’ or rather than I happen to be looking at lots of websites for cars’ and making the inference.

P: It’s got to be inference driven on their side, or are you saying that you would like them to switch off the inference engines that they are all working on and developing now? 

E: Can’t they just ask you if you are interested in any of these products? But I suppose you’d just get annoyed with that list coming up all the time.

P: Exactly, I think there is a design imperative that it should be in the background so it doesn’t annoy people and you have already talked about people being annoyed by websites so there is clearly an issue about things being intrusive 

E: It has to be made explicit that why I am doing this is so that you don’t get annoyed and so you have control over what data people are using to target you with. I don’t know why I have a problem with it. I don’t like the idea of other people making inferences that I want to buy such and such. And I am generally nosy as well and I like to have a look round if I wanted to buy wine or something.

P: And that’s why if you wanted to use the net in that traditional way in just having a look at stuff and maybe thinking about broader decisions, not just having a look for the sake of it, then they would make inferences about what you want. That’s quite different. Yes, those are the sort of problems. I think they will try and work on that. If someone asked your position would it be something along the lines of you can see the advantage in developing these but you would like it to be more explicit and for you to have a certain amount of control over it.

E: Yes, because I’d like to think I am not manipulated by advertising but I am and I resent that. I would love to have someone inventing a programme that would blank out all the adverts on every website.  The person who does that ...

P: It’s not going to happen is it!

E: Well, I’d pay for it! I don’t like the idea of being manipulated maybe, perhaps that’s what it is.

P: Does the idea of manipulation go hand in glove with the idea of trading on-line in a way?

E: No. Because you have more of a choice, don’t you. You have to realise you are being manipulated to a certain extent. 

P: In terms of access to companies goods and markets?

E: Yes.

P: So that might off-set some of the manipulative techniques.

E: It is going to get harder for them as well to target advertising because it is so easy at the moment because people sit down and watch television and there are breaks in between the programmes.  They can just click away and say I am not watching this, I don’t find it interesting or intriguing, so it is going to get a bit more personal.

P: What about other data that they use. You have talked about the other data, you have talked about the data they can use on line, analysing your click stream.  But they have an actual record of your past purchases that they are going to analyse you buying. Let’s say a supermarket would be able to look through the goods that you buy.

E: They do that at the moment don’t they 

P: Well, they have the capability of doing it but how do they feed it back to you? Online they have the information in front ( )

E: Yes, I mean that is part of the joy where they bring up your last shopping list, that is brilliant.  I mean there is nothing sinister in someone knowing that I buy milk every week frankly. I don’t have a problem with that. But on the financial side I think I have more of a problem I have an amazing credit rating at the moment, people sendme things about platinum cards. My parents are, like, how can you get this, we don’t get this. So I don’t know where somewhere it says I have a very good credit rating and I get all this rubbish. So maybe that is why I’m a bit worried about them taking information and they’ll get it wrong and I’d get a whole load of rubbish. If I was satisfied and it was up to date 

P: So in principle you don’t mind about it being usable information that you buy milk every week or whatever?

E: No, unless I get into huge conspiracy theories about price fixing and 

P: Well, there might be an issue about price and we’ll get into that in a minute but it is interesting that you put it that way because in a sense that is like the simplest sense in which this data can be used.  Recall what it is you have done with a specific item in the past, but that is only going to be the half of it. The point is when they start putting all the data together and start getting a picture of you in terms of your preferences and tastes. Not memory specific items but something a bit more subtle about drawing inferences about what sort of things you might like...

E: So for instance if I am only buying single portionsand they’ll think right he’s a single person mmm, I don’t know what I’d feel about that. In the end you wonder what really can they do. They’ll send me an inappropriate e-mail, well boo hoo. I’ll get over it. 

P: You remember on the Which? website they had this price visibility that was the first thing they had up there. What about if they could use this information to make an analysis of your record of purchases with them and that they would then put that into the equation when considering what kind of offer to make to you about the price.

E: That’s awful.

P: Wouldn’t it become possible though for a company to put 

E: Or to depend it on your earning bracket..

P: Yes, and your history of purchases with them, like how much your custom is worth to would become part of (...)

E: Yes, this is scary. But then if they do that then you go somewhere else to buy. Hopefully competition is so apparent...

P: But they will be doing it too..

E: Yes but the first person who comes in says we are not doing it.

P: But how would you know, you just order something and get an offer on the price. They say you can have that for 10 pence cheaper.  Or you are still thinking about shopping in relation to one site and you being on-line. What about other kinds of developments like mobile intelligent agents that you instruct to do your shopping for you and they go off and negotiate prices. Now you would never necessarily see what the public price is. Your programme would just come back with a report saying you can get this bundle of goods cheapest here. Do you think that has any implications for visibility of prices ( )

E: I’ts not good, is it?

P: Why not?

E: If you go into a shop, it seems to be every customer is treated equally. This company has such and such values (...) But I don’t see how that could ever occur, especially when there are going to be people like the Consumers Association highlighting these sorts of activity. And the first start up company that says this is our mission statement we do not do this sort of underhanded (..) and people would feel so strongly about it that they would go and use them.

P: But can’t they disguise it in a way. They can call it loyalty, they could say it is a discount for loyalty. We would never know. At the moment prices are public and you can go and check. You can find out if your friend is getting it any cheaper than you are at the point of sale? How would you feel if you and I were to go to the same site and they were to offer it to me cheaper than they were to you?

E: Why would they be giving it to you cheaper? Because you earned more or less?

P: For whatever reason. Again, you wouldn’t necessarily know these things, they wouldn’t be transparent...

E: No, but it would be in there if they had got Mori to work out (...) what demographic they should offer cheaper to.  Intuitively I don’t want to do it. And whatever it is I probably wouldn’t want to buy such and such an item that is going to be offered on that basis. 

P: But there is nothing natural about the basis on which we trade at the moment, it is just a consequence of the way that physical shops are laid out and this public price thing is...

E: At the moment it is just dependent on your geographical location.

P: Exactly, prices vary according to where you live.

E: Like Budgens, Tesco and Sainsburys on Tottenham Court Road have got a price fixing thing happening and then you go to Camden and there is a different sort of thing happening there. If it is only about a few pence we are talking about...

P: Oh sure, if things are marginal then we are not going to be interested but if things become 

(brief distraction about the tape recorder)

P: Sorry, what were you saying?

E: About offering things to people cheaper dependent on almost arbitrary seeming facts that they have collated. Yes, I would feel manipulated.  Obviously their thinking would be he can’t afford to pay it but this would be the price that he would be prepared to pay for this good or service. So it is a manipulative thing.

P: Pricing in some sense becomes a different basis for constructing price and it has a  part of it is based on the consumer and it builds in to it in a way that is less typical of the current trend.

P: Let’s look at another couple of websites. What other things would you like to look at?

E: Shall we look at an auction. You were talking about auctions. 

P: Here’s one. QXL. Have you seen the adverts in the tube?

E: Yes. These things you are talking about, they are going to be years away. Because you are going to get a certain percentage of the population shopping that way in order for it to be worthwhile, I would have thought.

(Sounds of problems getting onto the site)

P: Here we go.

E: They must design these things with bigger screens. What are we looking for?  A TV. That’s not bad. What are these things! You could spend so much money on rubbish!

P: The reserve is £45.

E: So they won’t sell below?

P: Closes on 9th December

E: What is the point of making a bid of £23?

P: I don’t understand that.

E: Maybe they think you get into a frenzy and suddenly you are over the reserve limit.

I worry why these are online rather than being sold by shops.

P: Why?

E: Isn’t it a bit of a hassle. Oh, its got a picture!

(Few minutes of reading off screen, commenting on prices)

P: What do you think about these?

E: I don’t want any of these things.

P: Yes, they are very idiosyncratic, very particular objects. Fun to look at but..

E: The novelty would wear off.

P: What other kind of things have you looked at. Have you looked at the CDs, the CDroms?

E: I’ve looked at the Amazon bits.

P: What do you think of that?

E: Well, I mean that is a perfect product for the Internet. It is nice and small for postage and people do have particular tastes so the small little shop might not have what you wanted.  I saw quite a good thing the other day, I typed in a load of books and gave them a rating and it came out with other things that you might quite like. I think that would be quite a good thing for people to add on their (..) Again, it is tailored.

P: You were saying that some of the things that you get like additional mailings is intrusive, but you wouldn’t mind that. 

E: No, like if it was this band has got a new thing out, or the author. Surely there would be a box at the bottom saying I don’t want you to send me this stuff any more. 

P: How do you think it works seeing the picture in this way? When we looked at the goods (I’ll show you another example). You were saying that clothing would be less 


E: Do you know, I probably would look at clothing, but just to get ideas not to buy, I don’t think. I am one of these hopeless people who switch off when they go shopping and then panic buy. If I was more focussed...

P: So this suits more focussed, planned shopping. You just wait 

E: I think to some people shopping does take a lot of planning. I think some people do a lot of it and therefore it comes easily to them but you can end up buying something you didn’t particularly want or forgetting things or 

P: It has different photographs like this  ( )

E: Of people looking happy in their clothes...

P: No, just the clothes...

E: Just the clothes?

P: Yes, it shows you what they are like.

E: That’s good.

P: You know there’s other new technological developments. Think about the future of this stuff, we are looking very much at what it is now. But where do you think it is going in the future?

E: Well, there is all this thing about mobile phones now. What I would use would be a mobile that you can get your email on. That would push me to getting a mobile phone. The student population here, a huge proportion have got mobile phones, I wouldn’t have one because no-one would phone me! Also I can’t afford one. I think that during my working life everyone is going to have one. Checking a balance, paying a bill when you remember that you need to rather than being organised...

P: I see, so you are saying that technology will suit that way of shopping and suit disorganisation because you can do it in an instance.  

E: I find that people with mobile phones are incredibly disorganised because they have this crutch of a mobile phone, ’oh, I’ll be ten minutes’ late. 

P: So they use the fact that they have got a mobile phone to make themselves less 

E: More spontaneous and interesting!

P: What about other developments like digital television, they are going to offer a shopping service.

E: Personally, I would rather use the Internet because for instance what I’ve read about Open, it is very restricted what you can do and who etc etc...

P: So it’s a very limited service?

E: Yes, limited and it is not (...) access to the Internet. It is just a handset. ( ..)

P: How do you think that is going to split out socially. You are saying that you would use the Internet, there is an issue there.

E: I think there is going to be the people who graduate from digital television to digital televisions and some sort of email gateway through their TV maybe. ( ) There is all that convergence talk about how it is going to be a 

P: Yes, I haven’t heard so much about convergence just recently...

E: Even the mobile phones are converging 

P: Yes, the platforms will converge but there will be different kinds of service. I don’t know... Do you think this will spread, this way of transacting.

E: Yes, I think there will be a critical mass. Nationwide was saying you can’t use the counters any more, we are going to charge you £5 for using the counters but you can go and use the hole in the wall. So there will be that sort of stick element to it. And then there will be the carrot of incredibly stupidly low interest rates for credit cards. It will become an inevitability that people will have to get used to doing. And maybe shopping, going out to the shops, will be a nicer thing to do.

P: What is left of it.

E: It will be the speciality things.

P: Oh, OK, so you think it will affect the high street. The big brands will be on the Internet and digital platforms and the high street will become a small shop medium.

E: Yes, I was reading something about Boots, and they were specialising in going the other way, more upmarket and whole lifestyle things and that people were going to buy their shampoo online but that people would go and get a facial in Boots.

I don’t think it is going to happen very soon. 

(brief and difficult to understand exchange about grandparents and age)

P: OK. That is it. Thanks very much.

Interview ends.




Ut38

UT38, 10/3/99,  C2DE single woman high-tech


I:	Interviewer
J:	interviewee
F:	second female

I:	Okay, well I’m Pete, and we’re talking to people about, um, the Internet and computers, and you were just saying you’d bought a computer

J:	About two months ago

I:	Two months ago.  What are you going to use it for?

J:	Umm, basically I actually got it to go into the Internet because I do a lot of reading and quite often I’ve got quite a lot of magazines come through and they, like, if you want more information, like www dot, and I sort of thought well, you know, it’s going to be useful to me for that.  And work as well, though I don’t actually use one at the moment there’s a good chance if I do some other things at work it’s going to, that’s going to come in useful there.  And my son’s at University at the moment but when he’s down he’s going to be using it occasionally, so basically three things.  But it’s taking me a while to get into it at the moment, bit slow, because I totally before that never used one at all.  I’m beyond the age when you got any computer training at school

I:	Yeah right, right

J:	So I’m teaching myself at the moment.  That’s about it really.

I:	You got the package, I see you got some games

J:	Those are actually Daniel’s friends games, I got one down here that come with the very basic package and there’s a couple of games in that but they’re actually his friends games that they’ve not picked up yet.  I’m not really into games, they’re just sat there because he’s gone back to college.

I:	And what about the Internet, what have you, have you browsed on it a bit and looked at

J:	I’ve done a bit, yeah, I’ve tried quite a bit of the surfing and such, but I sit there and think, well what might be cool, what are we interested in, so I’ve sort of put a few things in that I’m interested in and got some stuff back.  Um, I’m more likely to put in an address that I’ve read somewhere

I:	Yeah, right

J:	In the magazine ComputerActive is it?

I:	Yeah

J:	The monthly one?   It seems pretty good and there was a few things in that this month so I’ve got some websites, some web addresses that I’ve actually put in last night

I:	And those websites, they have links to other sites, have you tried moving from one site to another?

J:	It’s sort of, something came up last night that sort of indicated that but it sort of threw me a bit, cos I thought what does this mean, cos I haven’t done that yet, so I didn’t actually attempt it.  I’m still a little bit anxious, when it comes to certain things I think, ooh no, now what?

I:	Right so you, yeah right, so you go to a site that you know, you’ve got the address for it?

J:	Yeah, if I’ve got the address, yeah, umm, I man I have done a couple of sort of attempts at surfing for things, like I’m interested in Buddhism, so I sort of typed in things like Buddhism or Thailand or Dalai Lama and seen what it’s thrown up then

I:	Right, right, right

J:	so I suppose, in a sense, I suppose that was sort of surfing

I:	Mmm, yeah

J:	but it’s worked, I mean

I:	Lot of stuff?

J:	Yeah, yeah, eventually, I mean some of it wasn’t that interesting, most of it was stuff that I knew anyway, but it’s um, yeah, I’ve just about sussed out how to do all that now.  And obviously email to other people, receiving email, I’m sort of alright with doing that now

I:	Yeah

J:	People at work, things like that

I:	And which internet provider do you use?

J	BT.  It came with a three-month trial and now they’ve gone free anyway, so

I:	...

J:	Yeah, they’ve sort of sent me messages through the computer plus I got a letter today saying the same thing.

I:	Another free one now

J:	So I did contemplate leaving them and going with freeserve or ... or whatever

I:	I expect a lot of people were thinking like that

J:	But now, I thought, well they’re okay at the moment, while I’m still fairly basic with it.  I think there might come a point, some of the others have said there are better ones out there, but it’s okay for me.

I:	Just check the tape (pause) yeah, that’s fine.  And what about internet, um, shopping on the net?

J:	I haven’t attempted that, because basically I don’t really like buying things I haven’t actually seen, I mean, I can’t stand QVC on the TV because it’s a load of crap basically and

I:	Don’t you watch it sometimes, sort of fascination?

J:	No, I get so annoyed by it I turn it off cos it just annoys me

I:	All those wonderful demonstrations

J:	They spend half an hour telling you about this, and it’s like the tiniest thing and they run out of ideas and you know that they’re just like dragging it out.  So I haven’t really got into the shopping, it’s not really for me, don’t think.

I:	Have you, have you heard about that?  about home shopping?

J:	Yeah, yeah, I’ve seen, sort of when the homepage comes up, I’ve seen it on there.  Nah, it wouldn’t be for me really.

I:	Mmm, alright.  Well, you can show me what you do on your computer if you like, and then I’ll show you, I’ve got one here too and we can have a look

pause

I:	So what’s your son doing at University?

J:	Teaching, umm, Film and Media, it’s actually a combined course, he’ll do one or the other at the end of it and he’s more likely to do the film and media if he can, but he’s only just started this year

conversation about son while computer boots up

I:	Oh, you’ve got Windows 98

J:	I basically just always go into the inbox first, see ...

I:	Right, right.  And when you bought the computer, was the whole package, was it included

J:	Everything, yeah, except the table’s mine

I:	Oh right, yeah.  The printer

J:	yeah, comes with it.  It’s got a joystick ... for the games without so it doesn’t have to be put on. He was here when it got here and he helped me ...
j
I:	So he helped you set it up when it arrived?

J:	Yeah, we set it up together, well, he did a lot of it.  And then he was here for a couple of weeks, the idea being that he was going to show me a lot of things, like what I could do, but he was like, doo doo doo doo, and I was saying, slow down, slow down, so in the end it was like, oh, go back to college and I’ll teach myself!  It was kind of like teaching someone to drive, you don’t do it with your family really.

I:	Yeah, right!

J:	But I’m getting it slowly.

I:	So this is your

J:	Yeah.  I haven’t changed any of the sort of layout or anything sort of ...   What is that, that ...

I:	That’s like a disk, a CD

J:	... it’s interesting initially but then

I:	Yeah, right

J:	I find it hard, I try to sort of um, go through when I’m trying to teach myself, them teaching me, but it’s such a slow process keep ... and everything,

I:	Yeah, yeah.  But this is a package to instruct you about it.

J:	Yeah,  I’ve sort of set up headed notepaper (?) and things like that

I:	Right, right

J:	And things like that, (pause) it’s doing, see, when I

pause

J:	The few lessons that I’ve actually done on it, it’s not been that great cos I’m not, um, totally spreadsheet trained.  Probably all you need, probably all on one thing.  That’s the things I’ve done, letters I’ve had to send to people and the letterhead

I:	Right

J:	Daniel stuck a few other things in, did a drawing, did a ...

I:	Yeah, yeah

I:	So you’re using it for some letters and things as well as

J:	Oh yeah, yeah, I’ve sent some letters with it and, just, they’re getting better each time.  I’m playing around with the one at work a bit more as well, which is useful, although it’s not got Windows as such it’s ... what we use at work

I:	Right.  So what do you do at work?

J:	Well I’m actually a ambulance driver but I’ve been on sort of light duties for a couple of months cos I had an accident so I’ve been in the office so I’ve been using their one, but I’m back on the road next week. So at work, I’ve just been putting in people’s overtime and all that, boring.

I:	All right, let me show you this one I’ve got here.

J:	Plug it in in the wall there

I:	I think it’s got a battery.

pause

I:	have you heard about, um, issues about information that is stored about people on the Net?

J:	No, haven’t come across that 

I:	later.  Now, have you got a phone socket here?

J:	Umm, there’s one that it’s plugged into, or there’s another one in the hall, but I don’t know if it’ll reach that far will it?

I:	Yeah, I’ve got an extension on it

J:	I can unplug the bedroom one then, just put it straight into there

pause

I:	Great.  Can I just put it on here

setting up computer

I:	So how would you describe the Internet, now you’ve had a go?

F:	I think I’ve sort of barely scratched at the surface, it’s obvious that there’s so much more there.  I suppose I didn’t anticipate it being quite so difficult to er, find the things you wanted, so I need really to find some short cuts to that, um.  But, I’m not disappointed in it, but I know I’ve got a lot more sort of self-learning to do before I’m going to get the most out of it.

I:	Yes, it’s still not something you can just sort of do, is it?

F:	No, no, it’s far more complex than I thought it would be

pause

I:	Okay, I’m just going to go into Compuserve for the Internet

F:	That’s the one I was going to do if BT hadn’t gone free.  Couple of people at work have got compuserve

I:	Have they said what the advantages of it are?

J:	They’ve said like, obviously it’s free and that’s the, one of the guys who is sort of really up on computers says it’s a lot quicker than BT and they’ve actually got far more space.

pause

J:	Is it plugged in okay?  Is that doing it now, sometimes it’s

 ...

J:	if it was plugged into the wall, without the extension, that might do it

modem noise

I:	I can turn that volume down

Computer:	‘You have new mail waiting’

J:	Ooh

I:	Alright, well, basically I’m going to show you some of the sites that there are for shopping on the Internet.  Okay, shall we start with this one.  Yeah, do you want to come a bit closer?

J:	Not as young as I used to be

I:	Okay, so this is a CD company, do you want to have a go?  Put an artist’s name in there

J:	anybody?

I:	Anyone you like, yeah

J:	Then return?

I:	That’s it, now return

I:	go back to send the information to the Internet zone

pause

I:	Oh, okay, so ... is that the right one?

J:	Press this one

I:	Oh, okay.  Right, so, umm-hmm, 

J:	prices in dollars

I:	It’s an American company.  So you can order them from America and they post them

J:	Do they convert it into English?

laughter

J:	I meant the price

I:	Oh the price, yeah, well you pay with a credit card and it’s automatically, er, would get  

J:	Oh, I see

I:	Listen before you buy.  Which one do you want to hear?

J:	...

I:	Oh, you can’t, it’s only

J:	Oh right, better have number 3 then?

I:	This is a different company in America that stores samples of sound, so this website is connected to there

music

J:	What a good idea!  It’s nice, isn’t it?  When you think of like shopping on the Internet you don’t sort of think of something like this.  You just think it’s like, you do get an image of the QVC crap and you sort of think

I:	Yeah right

J:	but the thought of actually sampling the music, you

I:	This is more like the same ..., but it’s not bad, you can get the impression of the songs, and in that way you can pick up most CDs.  It’s quite novel, it’s like a warehouse, they don’t actually have shops, CDNow, they’re just an Internet company.

J:	Like a giant Argos, you just plug it in there and they go and get it from a big factory.

I:	That’s it, that’s it basically.  Also you can look for things with a similar, so shall we see what they recommend?

J:	Oh yeah, yeah

I:	Star Wars the Trilogy?

J:	I suppose that might sort of  

I:	Ah, so that’s why they’ve got it.  So this is an attempt to analyse, based on your choice, and say, okay, she likes that sort of thing, maybe she’d like all these other sorts of things as well, you see they’re just learning how to do it but that’s the general idea.

J:	Very clever.. You do get the sense that it is actually picking into your brain or whatever.

I:	Well yeah, yeah, at the moment that’s like totally

J:	I’ve actually got that one, because I do like that one

I:	Oh right, right, which one shall we get?

J:	...’s one, that’s the one with the advert on the TV.  Little man running down the factory.

I:	Well, yeah, it’s all automatic

music

I:	Oh right, what’s that one for

J:	Well I get it confused with another one, but there was a British Airways one, and that, this is the one isn’t it

I:	Yeah, British Airways

J:	Is this only available on computer-serve, or can you do this sort of shopping anywhere?

I:	oh, you can do internet shopping anywhere, you can do it off yours.  but we’re not actually shopping at the moment, we’re just finding out about stuff, I mean that’s, you can, you can

J:	so you don’t have to end up buying it, you could just end up just listening to other things and getting it somewhere else

I:	You could do that, that’s one of the risks they take with it.

J:	Do they come out cheaper, just out of interest, I mean, what would 16 dollars be

I:	well, it’s 1.5 isn’t it, so it’s about 11 pounds isn’t it.

J:	Oh right, so there’s probably not a great deal of difference.

I:	it’s not a big difference is it.  And then you’ve got to pay postage on top.  Although you could order like 4 and it would be the same postage.  But sometimes things are difficult to get hold of, or out of print.  For books there’s a similar thing for, for, to buy books as well as CDs

J:	right

I:	If some thing’s not available in the UK, or we could try the book one, you said you were interested in books?

J:	Yeah

I:	We’ll try that (pause) it’s quite a long address

J:	Are most of these in America then?

I:	No, they’re all over the place, all different countries (?)

I:	Okay, so that’s a similar, similar, but, um, books rather than 

J:	Mmm.  Again, you just type in a sort of a heading that you might be interested in?

I:	Yeah, ... books. Do you want to do it?

J:	can I have a list of them or do you just, right

I:	Put whatever

pause

I:	Warning ...

pause

I:	so then, and it tells you what books it’s got in, introduction books

J:	And would it give reviews on them all?

I:	Yeah, it can do, it sometimes does, shall we see that, if you go and look at that one, information about that book.  So now you’ve got a list there we can go back to that list and we can check for ... there it’s got customer review, it’s got 8 reviews on it so far so we can check those reviews out here.  See what people..., and these are customer reviews, so they’re people, you know, not

J:	Not necessarily trying to sell it to you

I:	That’s right.  And there’s the review.

J:	Mmm

I:	Another one, synopsis ... And you can again do the same thing

J:	Right, yeah

I:	have a look and see, what category they’ve got ...

J:	Mmm

pause

I:	That’s good.  The ranking of the sales is 5000

J:	right

I:	Cos they’ve got millions of books so that’s selling quite well in that

J:	...

I:	You can go back to it, the list we had

pause

I:	oooh

J:	what’s that then?

I:	There’s something wrong with the browser

J:	Away, go away

I:	 ok.  So you can do, so yeah, so that’s similar to the CD , you can get different things.

J:	Right, yeah

I:	Well, here’s something a bit closer to home, Tesco’s

J:	mmm

I:	I don’t know how you like the idea of that (?)

pause

J:	why would you call up Tescos?  To see whether their prices have gone down, or see what’s in stock

I:	Well, they actually have an Internet superstore, you can actually order your groceries on line

J:	Pick everything you want, and then

I:	Then they deliver it

J:	I suppose, if you are sort of housebound, for whatever reason, it’s probably really excellent.

I:	That’s right, that would be a big ... could also maybe, I don’t know, people with you know, with kids

J:	Oh yeah, yeah.

pause

I:	Oh right, here we are.  So there’s the different categories you could find, which would you choose

J:	ooh, well

I:	...

pause

laughter

pause

I	So there you are, now you can choose what you want - premium canned dog food, sub-premium canned dog food, economy, economy dog food

J:	Does it give you prices as well?

I:	yeah, shall we try it

J:	oh yeah.  What about this one, this price can of dogfood

I:	There we are.  The links, it lists,  lists the different dogfoods.

J:	 So if you were actually doing this for sort of getting the shopping, you’d click on each one as you wanted. You’d go through each aisle as if you were going down and click on what you want.

I:	Yeah

I:	Now, as you’re a guest you can’t order, but you would then put that in your shopping basket.  

J:	mm

I:	I can’t get it out

J	:No, you can’t use that either, it says that.  In other words it’s just tempting you

I:	It’s just showing you how you can do the product searching.  But then you get a shopping basket and it puts it all in there, and go to the checkout with your order

J:	that’s very clever.  Yeah, I can see uses for it but I mean, ... probably still go shopping, but with something like this I can definitely see me using it for something like books and music, because it’s never occurred to me before.  I mean, I’ve joined, I’m in book clubs and music clubs, and so you know, it’s no different, it’s a lot easier to do this than to keep getting sent, like this one, videos they sent to me and I never ordered and I’ve got to send it back.  Complete pain in the neck.

I:	and Sainsbury’s are doing it, I mean, they all have their versions.

J:	...  Could be great at Christmas cos you can’t get to the shops to get your presents

I:	Yeah.  And there’s Waterstone’s,

J:	Good bookshop

I:	And John Lewis.  Right, so this is like information about John Lewis, what makes it different, buying a PC, which do you get.  Shopping, I don’t think you can shop on-line here, so they’ve not gone in for on-line shopping, this is 

J:	Let you know what they have got, more information

I:	There are lots of companies that are doing that, they use the Internet for information but not yet for shopping.  I don’t think a lot of people are actually yet shopping.

J:	Would they use it internal, for like, how much stock they’ve got, like save you ringing up or going in checking to see if they’ve got something in particular you want, would they be updating it with what’s in stock and what isn’t

I:	Well, they’re not, I don’t think they are on this one, but they could do, that is something they could do and that would be quite useful

J:	something like IKEA, where you spend like hours and hours and only to find the one thing you’ve gone all the way over there for has sold out..  This has happened.

I:	Well, you know IKEA have a telephone service

J:	Do they?

I:	Oh yeah

J:	Oh right

I:	And they’ll check the catalogue for you and tell you whether it’s in the store you’re interested in.  But they could put that online

J:	Yeah, that’d be helpful wouldn’t it

I:	That’d be good wouldn’t it, check to see if they’ve got it in before going round the North Circular.  But this is, I mean, this is interesting, I mean, Marks and Spencers are another example, they’re a company that are like this that have a site but they don’t use it for actually selling things, it’s just sort of to be there

J:	it could happen at some point couldn’t it

I:	yeah, yeah, that’s right, once they’re in the game, playing it for

J:	Ah.  Are they sort of, are they like, are there certain pictures you were looking at, the ones you wanted to buy, seeing them over in art books and wanted to find somewhere you could actually get that picture, or even as a poster, would that ever be available on that?

I:	yeah, yeah.  In fact, see if I can find (pause) now, what’ve we got, yeah  ...  They’ve got Interflora.  Oh here it is, yeah, ..., let’s have a look at that

J:	Oh right.  ... towns and villages

I:	Oh wow! Oh, I’ve never seen this before, that’s quite interesting.  You can pay by Access or Visa, Mastercard, maps, posters, here they come.  Mmm.  Don’t know where we’d search for it.

J:	Mmm.  Bonus Print (?) is that it

I:	Oh no, this is the search, look.  Actually got ...

J:	Oh, okay

I:	what I’d like to test this map (?)

J:	yeah, it is

I:	you can click on an area of the country on the left

J:	Oh yeah.  That one there, the other side of the Severn Bridge, down there.

I:	there

J:	Gwent

I:	Here we go

J:	Oh yeah. ...  my favourite  

I:	fancy print. I don’t know if you can enlarge it, sometimes you can, no you can’t. Sometimes on these programs you can make it take up a whole screen, it’s view of this

J:	You can actually get a frame with this, comes with a frame, a polished wood frame, oh right

I:	Or just as a poster.  It would be good wouldn’t it, it would be good if you could make it bigger, and then you’d get a better, you know, 

J:	If you want a particular present for someone, you know, a certain place, it would sort of have meaning for you.  

F:	And I suppose it’s a specialist thing as well isn’t it, I mean, you wouldn’t be able to go into a print shop.

J:	No, the only place you could ever perhaps get that would be, you’d have to go to Tinton, you’re not going to be able to get that really locally, 

F:	Yeah right, right, so that’s an advantage of this kind of shopping

J:	Yeah, for the money you’d cost, it would cost to go down there to actually find it, it’d be a lot easier to do this.

I:	...

J:	And this was Barclay Square was it now.  

F:	Yeah, this was the, ...

J:	So is this actually sponsored by Barclaycard, is that why it’s got that up the top then.

F:	I think so, I think it’s Barclays ...   Yes

I:	Yes.    So Barclays have set it up, because I suppose they’ve seen people using it

J:	Well yeah, they wouldn’t they

I:	Credit cards are going to be the main way to pay.  Have you seen these adverts that they’ve put up as you go, and that what I was saying to you about links, when you get a, that’s a link to another website, so if you want to go there it’ll take us to the Panasonic website

J:	So how do they set that up, do Panasonic pay Barclaycard for a part of their, piece of the action, or

I:	Probably, yeah, because they pay to put their advert in

J:	And Barclaycard would pay to set up that website, and then Panasonic pay them, and ... taking off a little bit of it.

I:	Yeah.  That’s called banner advertising because it’s small. So here we have now a link to that site there, so if you’re in any sites, ... or something like that, ...

J:	A site within a site

I:	Yeah, we’re now, well, once you get into that, you’re away.  We can go back to the previous one by pressing on that

J:	right

I:	Where we were before.  It hasn’t got many links to many other sites.  We’ll come back to that site.

I:	I’ll show you this Interflora one cos that’s got some nice pictures

pause

J:	mmm

I:	And these are the different bouquets that they have

J:	So that’s as good as going into a shop really and seeing what they can do.

I:	Yeah, and this one does have ..., get a better picture of the flowers.  Yeah, so you can get a better picture of what they would be like.

J:	Interflora’s not cheap is it?

I:	bit expensive, yeah

J:	exactly

I:	But again, things like that where you can sort of view before you buy

J:	And you’re viewing what you want to look at, not what someone is showing you

I:	Well, that’s right, there’s a tendency to sort of lay all the stuff there and allow you to come and have a look at whatever you, you know, what you want, that’s the approach they’re taking at the moment.  And there is, there is, one of things that’s going to develop is digital television, and you’ll have access to the Internet through digital television

J:	Right, yeah

I:	and then maybe it’ll be a different kind of service, it won’t be, like this is like the Internet is just like browsing through other internet sites, but when it goes on the television it’ll be much more, it’ll give you a menu of things to choose from. More like, you can see

J:	And then it’ll just come up with what they’re showing you, you can’t just then jump away from that and go into something else.

I:	that’s right

J:	No, I prefer this

I:	yeah

J:	Nobody actually in your face

I:	Yes, it’s very much, you’re right, no, it is, it is quite laid back

J:	Hard sell

I	of course you can go out and go wherever you want

J:	You don’t feel that you actually make a decision under any pressure, or rash decision, cos it’s down to you whether you keep looking or buying.

I:	That’s right.  And then, there’s umm, obviously we’ve seen groceries and books and records, electronic goods, gifts

J:	Holidays

I:	Holidays, yeah

J:	...

I:	Yeah, so travel

J:	So if you wanted to try and get a last minute deal, probably quite a good place to come

I:	that’s right, that’s right.  Yeah, they’ve got promotions haven’t they, ... 

J:	Could you actually book it through this at the same time, so you know it’s totally up to date don’t you, it’s not like, you know other places where they’re telling you there’s all these cheap deals and by the time you get there it’s gone

I:	Or you can phone them if you want to do it over the phone.  Ah, that’s not promotions, that’s ...

J:	mmm

I:	What would they call it

J:	Last minute bookings, or

pause

J:	That’s basic

I:	That’s right, that’s a basic site that’s telling you information.  Well maybe it’s here, that’s another link to another site. ..., that’s a link there.  Change the tape

pause

J:	Choice of holidays but it doesn’t have sort of last minute. 

I:	I think it might have.  Offers, that’s it

END OF SIDE

I:	Choose your destination

J:	Mmm.  That’s ...

...

I:	see if they’ve got anything at that price, there we are

J:	mm.

I:	that’s for ..., oh no no no, it could ... that’s pretty good

J:	Not bad actually is it

I:	Cape Cod, four nights, Orlando, fancy going there for 3 nights?

J:	Mm yeah.  It’s good that isn’t it

I:	well that is, that’s what they’ve got

J:	Yeah

I:	Where would you want to go, let’s see, do you want to go anywhere after that?

J:	Under £200

I:	Under £200, yeah, lets see what they’ve got

J:	Costa Blanca

I:	Channel Islands, two nights, not that good is it?

J:	Mmm.

I:	Channel Islands, that’s it

J:	Right

I:	Not the greatest deals in the world!  So that’s

J:	you could probably tap into any one of like, the major travel companies, and do the same thing

I:	Check them all out and see what they’ve got going.  And then you get information about travel insurance

J:	...

I:	Yeah.  Yeah, so travel is on as well, and the other thing it does is financial things like banking

J:	Yeah, I’m sort of involved a little bit with that at the moment, although I’ve got a financial advisor, I’m selling up and I’m moving and he, we had one of these round the other night, and filled out mortgage forms. (PAUSE) oh is that the Royal Bank of Scotland?

I:	Oh yeah, that’s what I meant to click.  Just try that one

J:	What about the Woolwich?  That’s why I got my mortgage with them.

I:	How do you spell it?

J:	I C H

...

I:	So here’s the Woolwich’s website, and there’s the mortgages.  So this way you could do what the advisor was doing for you, you could do it over the Internet.

J:	Mmm.  That’s one I looked into the other day

I:	What is it?

J:	You can pay more as and when you want to, and you can adapt to the sort of interest rate yourself, suit your own circumstances.

I:	So it’s very flexible.  Yeah, okay.  Sounds great.  So you can fill out a form, ver interesting

J:	Can you do the same do you think with car insurance?  Cos I, just yesterday, just sorted out some car insurance, just the usual thing, the Yellow Pages and ringing around, wondering if you could have done it through there? 

I:	Well, one thing you can do is search it

J:	 Cos that’s all they do when you ring them up, isn’t it, they just plug into the computer and see what the best deals are at the moment.

I:	That’s right, that’s right, but with this you’d be able to do it yourself basically, find your own.  I think you’d have to search for that, unless you knew the names of the companies, what you can do is use a search engine

pause

I:	Go back to that, now we can search

J:	...

I:	Yeah, and then we can do

J:	What, motor insurance

I:	There’ll probably be a lot of sites, here we are

J:	Oh yeah, yeah

I:	Summary relating to ... that looks fine, ...

J:	 

I:	No, that’s for classic cars isn’t it 

J:	Like that

I:	Have to go all the way back.  Or you can go to a particular company and do that

pause

I:	Try the AA

J:	When do you put co and when do you put com then?

I:	Umm, I don’t know, not quite sure. No, must be something else.  This is the thing  you were saying about the frustrations of trying to search.

J:	Mmm.  And all the time that it goes on and on you’re aware of what you’re costing.

computer:	Leaving Compuserve

J:	Bye!

F:	Hello!

J:	Hi!

F:	Alright?

I:	So, how are we doing?

J:	Well, it’s actually very interesting, it’s made me think a bit more about, yeah, shopping with a computer, it’s different to what I thought, you know, I was like, shopping, you know, really ... But no, thinking about actually things I am interested in, it’s no different from me shopping at home with mail order.  And you’re not actually committed to so many a year as you are with book clubs.

I:	No, no, you can just go and get the book that you want, or the books that you want.  Also they’ve got the whole catalogue of books so you can go and search for what you’re interested in rather than looking for ones.  

J:	Well, that’s another problem I’ve had with like magazines that I’ve had that’ve recommended certain books, I’ve gone to shops in Covent Garden and never find the books that I’m looking for.

I:	yeah, but on there

J:	would people like Foyles and that have a site on there?

I:	They might have actually

J:	So you could actually go into one of the biggest bookstores then

I	Yeah, you could try that.  But in a sense, the advantages of things like the Amazon that we looked it is that they’ve got unlimited space, you know, any, cos they’re just a warehouse in America, so they can just, or they can order the books directly and then send them on to you.

J:	Yeah, they’ve obviously got the links the other side to where to get it from?  Would the postage be quite high though if you go through that one, cos it’s in America isn’t it, or is it not too bad?

I:	Books are cheaper in America as well, so it sort of works out at not much difference.

J:	Mm.  Yeah, that’s interesting

I:	And the other thing (pause) One thing that happens, these are cookies, have you heard of those?

J:	No

I:	When you visit websites, it keeps a record of some of the connections and some of the sites that you’ve been to.  Stores that on your computer, and then when you visit another site that site can look at those cookies and see which other sites you’ve been to.

J:	Is that allowed? Oh right.  That’s interesting.

I:	It’s all in the background, even if you don’t actually know about it

J:	And is that on every single computer they can do that?

I:	Yeah, I bet it’s on your computer as well.  No, okay, so BT doesn’t do that.  The particular internet provider that I’m using are doing it but BT’s not doing that.  There’s a controversy about that, about whether it’s a sort of invasion of privacy.

J:	I think it is actually, I think it is.  Umm, only because you know, you might not actually want the next person you looked into to know you already looked at something else.  Especially if you are comparing prices or something.

I:	well you see into the future, one of the things that might develop is that you’ll have a piece of software that will act as your agent to try and do negotiations for prices. Cos at the moment that’s just like you’re getting browsing prices and seeing what you want or browsing information, but eventually when more and more people get on-line, it’s possible that they’ll develop a way that you can actually try and negotiate on the price, so you can go and say, look I’ve checked out this, this and this site, can you offer it to me lower?  

J:	Yeah

I:	But you won’t have to do that, a piece, a program will go off and do it for you

J:	... monopolies

I:	Well, I don’t know about that.  I don’t know whether it’ll bring down monopolies but it’s um, it’s an interesting, it will change the relationship between us and the people selling to us.  And the other thing, you remember that thing when we were on CDNow, and it said, we can show you some CDs that are like the one that you’ve got, and they’ll try and develop those things too so like the supermarket will keep a record of all the things you buy.

J:	Well they sort of do that anyway, don’t they, what was it, there was something I was doing and I was thinking, they’re actually monitoring what I’m buying here.  Is it in a supermarket, they’re actually, where they’re swiping it, they’re actually recording what you’re buying and then by doing that they’re going to monitor what sells well and what doesn’t and you’re doing them a service

I:	That’s right, that’s right.  The, um, storecard

J:	Yeah, that’s right, that’s what it was

I:	They store the information about that.  What they’re going to try and do is link that up to the website so that when you go on-line,  you know, as more people shop on-line, they’ll know from their loyalty card, from their storecard, what they’ve bought and they’ll be able to link that to them when they come on-line and then they’ll be able to offer them things that they think they’d like to buy

J:	I mean, bits of it, you think, yeah that could benefit us in the long run but there is the other side of where does it all stop, you know, the Big Brother thing and in the end will you have any sort of, thing about yourself that isn’t in the Net somewhere, everyone knows everything about you.  I know they’ve been worried about that from the very first moment.

I:	But then more and more people are getting them and having access to them, the information is sort of.  It’s one thing having records about people, stored on computers which they might

J:	They find out more and more about you, yeah.  Yeah. That could happen, you’ve got to be aware that if you’ve got anything to hide, don’t go on-line at the end of the day

I:	But do you think that, I mean, that’s an option, but then you sort of lose out on ...

J:	I suppose if you’re aware of it, I mean, that’s the thing, I mean I wasn’t aware about the cookies thing at all, so if this had been doing it

I:	you wouldn’t have known

J:	Yeah, I wouldn’t have known, and the things I’ve gone into already, I mean there’s nothing in particular, but I might not have wanted various companies within that that I’ve gone into to be aware of the other ones I’ve gone into.

I:	I mean, what, do you think they should make it more visible

J:	Yeah, yeah. I think there should be some warning when you first go into it that this information may be given out to other companies, just so you know

I:	I think one of the arguments against that probably, from the industry is that it’s sort of like, um, difficult to explain for one thing, and they’re not doing anything problematic with it, and it’s sort of better to do it in the background and not have people know about it.

J:	But it’s almost like, things like before this, you used to have lots of junk mail come because you, one company you’d link up with for whatever reason, suddenly you’re getting junk mail from everybody, and could this end up being the same thing, that you’ll end up getting a lot of

I:	E-mails

J:	Yeah, emails, you’d go to your in-box and it would be full up every day with junk!  Junk box! and you’d have to plough through that to get anything.

I:	One of the things that’ll develop to try and deal with that, like, there are some companies where you can filter, that just don’t accept certain emails.  

J:	So you’d actually tell them, I don’t want nothing from this, this, this, and then it wouldn’t come through again?  I suppose it’s easier than throwing it in the bin like you do with junk mail.

I:	Yeah, I mean, filter it out.  Yes.  So what do you think, do you think it’ll catch on, this?

J:	Oh yes, it’s on it’s way, isn’t it?  I mean, the fact that I’ve got one, you know, I felt left out the last year or so I felt I’m missing out on something and that’s the only reason I’ve got one.  I’m not using it to its potential but I know I will eventually.  I’m glad I’ve got it because I know I’d just be beginning to feel more and more left out otherwise, I think a lot of people are feeling the same.  And the fact that you can now get cheap ones with a package, easy payments, it’s like everything that’s ever been invented really isn’t it, initially it’s like no, it’s never going to catch on, or you know, they’re too expensive, but in the end everyone’s got one and this’ll be the same.  Won’t step outside the door in fifty years’ time, everything will be done through this

I:	Yeah well I mean there’s a lot of things that are developing around it, services, like home delivery, the way that they actually get the supplies side of things sorted out so that they get the right kind of channels.

J:	Interesting to know if they’d ever be able to do clothes, actually, when you put your size in and you’ll send a picture with a scanner of yourself to them and they can then actually put the clothes on you and show you, like a mirror, what you’d look like

I:	Well they’re developing now, body scanners, 

J:	Really?

I:	Big machines you can walk into with just your underclothes on and they take three-dimensional information, and they build a model of your body and then you can put clothes on

J:	Oh, excellent!  That I would be interested in because I hate going to shops and keep taking your clothes off, trying them on, putting your clothes back on.

I:	That’s right, that’s, that’s research.  And then you can, of course you can try, you can try a top in five different colours, you can say show it to me in all the different colours.

J:	Can you actually design what you want as well, could you design your own clothes? Rather than looking for something you can’t find

I:	Well that’s right, that’s right.  Well eventually, another thing is, eventually they’ll be able to produce clothes for your size cos they’ll have all your measurements and that could be sent off to, well, Hong Kong or China or wherever they make it and they’ll just make it

J:	Tailor-made suit!  Wow

I:	Yeah.  But, relatively cheap because,

J:	Yeah, not as much time involved.

I:	Yeah, it’s not like you’re going to a tailor to be measured.  There’s all that

J:	Yeah.  Exciting, isn’t it?

I:	Alright, well, thanks a lot

J:	Excellent, well it’s been really informative

I:	Okay.

J:	So what is your sort of part in all this?


TAPE ENDS.




Ut39

Ut39, ABC1 single male, high IT young, 21/7/99

P: Interviewer
I: Interviewee

P: ok, shall we say what our names are? I’m Pete
I: I’m X
P: Right, well we’re doing this research talking to people about the Internet and about electronic commerce. So shall we start by talking about…
I: yeah, (laughs) whatever you like
P: ok, what about talking generally about computers, new technology,
I: right
P: and the Internet? What your general thoughts about them are.
I: Well I think its incredible what you can do now with computers and  where they’ve come from, the size and where their going to currently. You know, they’re for ever faster, more powerful and the quality, you know, visually, and everything else is just improved dramatically,.
P: yeah
I: erm, in terms of the Internet, The internet its just its like its opened up a whole new medium
P: yeah
I: erm, for communication on a personal business level, its incredible
P: yeah. Do you use the Internet
I: Yes. 
P: is that, what do you use it for?
I: I use it to, err communicate with my friends, err, and I also use it for work. So erm, I use it for both purposes. 
P: for what? Finding information?
I: Erm, some of it is finding information, some of it is er, you know, leads that are sent to me, 
P: right
I: and sometimes, you know, you wanna send a spreadsheet or you wanna send a
P: yeah
I: and you know, it’s just so easy.  Err, for the business side I think we’re gonna be pulling back from it because of confidentiality 
P: right
I: and that’s the only issue, is is is that, but erm, I mean before we had our own, if you like, I don’t know if you call it an Intranet, in the company
P: yeah
I: before we had that, we basically, that’s what we used all the time was the Internet
P: right, but there is an issue about confidentiality?
I: yeah. When you said about, you know, buying things, I have never bought anything, in fact the other day, I was buying a book, and I thought ‘oh yeah, is it Arizon.com?’
p: yeah
I: oh I’ll just go and have a look see how much, and it might be cheaper
P: uhu
I: you know what, I didn’t buy it because I felt very wary putting my credit card and I’ve heard of other people that have
P: right
I: And this is not just one occasion, I’ve heard, you know and it just keeps pulling from your account and there’s nothing you can do about it. And err, I thought ‘well’ that’s not, that’s not too clever. You know, its just such a vast system and it can get hacked into I think
P: right
I: anyone essentially could take your credit card details and surf the Net on holiday, you know and just buy as you go. Erm, so that’s a concern
P: yeah
I: Things like, I mean I bank with ‘First Direct’
P: oh right
I: and they have erm, so it says on there a secure link. Now, erm, to me, I don’t find it such a problem doing that because if I’m transferring money or whatever, it’s at the bank, and we’re sending a message to the Bank and the Bank’s doing it
P: right
I: Nothing, if you like, there’s no transference of money
P: right
I: there’s no confidential information that could be used against you, in my opinion
P: right
I: Even though they say it’s secure, I’m happy to do that, but where, you know, somebody could access your credit card number then I’m, err, sceptical about that at the moment
P: yeah, what do you think would reassure you in terms of, is there a way they could, you know, make it so it was safe?
I: well, if, erm, if there was a company out there that actually advertised, err, ‘we have a secure link, nobody, this is proven  nobody can hack in here’. I think it takes that amount of, of, of strength of communication
P: right
I: to get people to believe it. because now there is this history and you know what happens, people attach themselves to it
P uhu
I: and that will stay for a long time, even if somebody does come up and do that, it will take certain people, including myself probably, a while before we start to believe in it
P: yeah. That’s interesting, I mean I suppose they don’t want to come out and say ‘oh we’ve dealt with this security thing’ because that puts the security thing on the agenda. Makes it very visible again
I: right
P: and could lead to people being more sceptical about it. It’s difficult to make the claim I suppose
I:  Is it possible to make it absolutely secure though?
P: well that’s a good question, 
I: yeah, its the million dollar question isn’t it? yeah. And then the problem is, because anything with computers, in fact I was talking to a guy, erm, who came to see me yesterday about a virus that he had
P: right
I: err, and initially I always felt viruses occurred naturally
P: right
I: I didn’t realise, that, you know, there’s these clever guys who sit there at night and actually devise these things. And erm, it was called the Jerk virus
P: oh I don’t know that one
I: oh well, it comes up, after a period of time and  flashes up on the screen ‘you’re a jerk’. How original. Erm, so er, it’s incredible that they have anti-virus software but that there are viruses coming out to the tune of maybe one to two a week
P: yeah
I: that you have to keep updating it and even that doesn’t guarantee
P: uhu
I: so if,, then you start to think, and probably a lot of people don’t know that, maybe there are but I didn’t initially, but now that I do know it actually makes me even more worried
P: yeah
I: that, err, you know, even these, you know big companies, Dr Solomans or whatever that are out there producing this stuff  to combat it can not guarantee
P: yeah
I: they’re saying we will capture probably, you know ninety percent
P: right
I: We just don’t know, cos there’s another guy on the block this week and he’s just  invented a new..
P: right
I: err, so there, I think there are, you know, the speed at which technology runs, there is also the speed at which, you know, clever people have,, I think it’s malicious fun really, err and it’s quite sad because they must be extremely intelligent people, who, who, who devise these viruses and what if they were putting it to good use?
P: well, they do it for all sorts of reasons
I: well you see, is it Linnex?
P: yeah
I: These guys write the programme s, you know, all over the Internet, send it to each other and, I think that’s incredibly good. There’s no hierarchy there, there’s a guy who’s, I can’t remember his name, but he kind of started it all off and they send him stuff and he kind of approves it or doesn’t approve it but there’s no real hierarchy and everyone just, you know, clubs in and gets this operating system which I believe is now being installed on Dell 
P: right
I: as a err, as a freebee
P: right, It’s interesting that isn’t it because that in a way one of the ideas behind the Internet originally that people referred to would be this free..
I: yeah
P: where software would be free
I: yeah
P: a new place for communication and 
I: very much so. Yeah, I think you’re right, it is to an extent err, but unfortunately everything now, well a lot of things you try and access they want money for
P: mmm
I: whereas before it used to be you could ‘oh why don’t you get on the Internet you’ll be able to find something
P: right
I: and you did and now everyone wants a bit of the pie. Erm, which is a shame because you know I think erm I think there’s enough advertising there to just fund it there don’t need to be charges. Erm, you know I’m looking at companies that provide maybe information on, you know, a country or something. The information is there, you don’t need to, to, to, to be charging people, you now, I mean, you know the population, its not going to change overnight
P: no
I: so why, you know, why charge somebody for basic information like that. Or a map, if you want a map of the country or you know you can get an atlas yeah but its, go on the Internet, you can print it off
P: yeah
I: erm but to, you know, you go to the library its free.
P: mmm
I: so I think there’s a lot, they could do a lot more.
P: which way, how do you think that’s likely to go? Is that likely to become more commercialised? 
I: oh, erm, I think its going to become more and more commercialised. There are a few that are trying, that a goo positive thing, you know, to make it an unpaid service. But err, cos there are more free, is it freeware
P: yeah
I: companies. There was like Dixons and there was Tesco and there’s some others. I’ve used one or two difference ones and found actually that the ones you pay for are better. They are better, I mean I’m using I think its Yahoo.com at the moment
P: right
I: err, but I do struggle sometimes, it can be frustrating when you can’t get on. No but it’s err, it’s one of those things, it depends on how, how much more strength is put behind these big companies to basically say err, well we’re going to do it our way and we’re going to make it free and we give it as a service to our customers cos we make enough money out of them anyway.
P: right
I: erm, but err, on the whole I think the Internet is gonna become more commercialised. 
P: yeah. Yes, cos ironically, the new freeware access is usually given by a company that has other reasons, commercial reasons for wanting more people online
I: yeah, like Tesco’s so you can shop on there
P: yeah right, or Dixons cos that’ll point you towards their 
I: their product
P: yeah
I: So, yeah there has to be an ulterior motive I suppose if its business.  Yeah.
P: But what do you think, I think that’s an interesting account of the shift that’s going on on the Internet in the last year or two really. Erm, but erm, I mean do you think that has any consequencies for what the Net is? You said it was a medium, I mean is it a medium that’s sort of changing
I: oh yeah I think it’s changing, it’s evolving, it’s developing and its constant. Its, its, its, like a moving beast, you know. I, I think it will just keep evolving. It will get, hopefully it will get better erm, and
P: what you mean as a service?
I: yeah, in terms of speed, you know if you’ve got a search engine, you know that you can find things easily, you know, sometimes you put something in you think, you know, 
P: 144,000
I: yeah, that’s just not practical is it? Er but erm, err, I was going to say something else actually, its gone, I was going to say something about err, about the way its developing, erm
P: oh we can probably come back to that
I: yeah
P: but what about actual shopping e-commerce and shopping online? What do you know about that?
I:  Yeah, I’m, you know, I’m in the food business so, I know that Tesco have got one and I’ve logged on there just to have a look around really once or twice. And erm, Amozon.com erm, I looked in cos, actually I don’t know how I know, I knew that they sold books I read it somewhere or something and it just stuck in my head and I thought I’d just have a look.
P: right
I: But, in fairness, it’s not my main usage er, for the Internet, because, as I say, probably because I’m a bit reluctant to
P: use the credit card?
I: yeah, that’s not something I really go into and have a look at.
P: yeah
I: The only time I have looked, at you know, sort of looking err, for a company car and stuff
P: right
I: I’ve actually gone into the Website
P: right
I: clicked in and got the information and all that, and then, you know, maybe gone off to the dealership. So,,, err, even tickets, you know, I do quite a bit of flying in my job, you know Easyjet and I thought just have a look on there and see. And they do they give a pound, ok its not a lot but it’s a pound discount  off the tickets for booking ‘em. And I could have easily booked them, erm, but there again, reluctance to do it. But I have gone into Websites which, you know, you could potentially buy something
P: mmm
I: erm, never actually gone through the transaction. Err at the end of the day.
P: well that’s interesting. So partly you’re using it just to find out information or to check on flights or whatever
I: yeah
P: that sort of service. Err, there are still quite a lot of sites that are not, that are commercial sites but there not necessarily transaction sites are they?
I: yeah cos I noticed Debonair you’ve got to ring them up after and I thought, well hold on, you’ve got a website, I was expecting like a thing at the bottom and an agreement. Er, and erm, one of my other colleagues at work actually found another website where its not specific to an airline. You sort of say where you want to go to, where your flying from and where your going to, more or less the times and it finds the best airline rate. Err, which is quite interesting.
P: Now that’s an interesting thing that might develop in the Web. Cos so far we’ve talked about companies, existing companies going online, or new companies like Amozon.com. But another thing might be this new kind of brokers, people who do the legwork basically for you, find out, I mean that’s something that’s developing.
I: Yeah, I see mileage in that, I mean that will cut out a lot of time.
P: you still wouldn’t necessarily buy from them.
I: unless, unless, erm, unless we could be convinced a little bit more and, and , and also I think for instance it would depend very much on what the company says cos your talking about company credit cards, so, you know, there is a level of security there and err, but, you know even on a personal basis, but more so for the company because, you know, obviously you’ve got quite big credit limits on these things. You can just, if somebody gets hold of it run would, yeah very much so. But I think that will be useful, that’s quite exciting
P: mmm
I: erm, because you know you just punch in the information, its doing the work for you, really saves you time. If you don’t have to ring up the travel agent inevitably, erm, err, sorry, I was just going to say, they might not be there or they are there or that the person you want to talk to
P: right
I: We’ve been working, I have for nearly a year, cos I’ve got an office here, I’m working mainly off the computer, you know telephone, erm, and then I’m sort of going out to my markets and coming back. So I leave it all to the secretary, who, you know, whose based in X. but the situation as follows, she’s leaving then I’ve got to replace her, cos they don’t feel the need cos she’s. So that kind of thing will save a lot of time. Now all the sales people will really be dependent on their machines err, or otherwise a travel agent.
P: right
I: So, erm, the company’s not too bothered, you know, as long as you get a good price and
P: uhum
I: you can do it. So, I think in the future we would, roaming, roaming nomadic salesmen booking through he Internet.
P: oh well that’s interesting cos that’s another way in which technology is changing the notion of ‘work’ and ‘commerce’ on that side.
I: mmm
P: That’s interesting because you’re saying that the development of e-commerce services will enable you to do that part of your job
I: true. I don’t know if you ever saw an ad, this is going back quite a while, but this guy had, I think it was Microsoft, and he had the Microsoft Office Suite, and he’s sitting there and the ‘phone rings and it’s, erm, yes, yes, I’ll speak to Charles and I’ll see what he can do. And he basically starts printing off, you know, these charts, and then he says ‘yeah, well yes, Penny’s sorting that out’. And he’s doing it all on his computer.
P: right
I: and it’s all coming off
P: right
I: and there’s like one man in his office. Erm, and in fact I’ve got one of these things which does, you know, it’s a printer, it’s a fax, erm, I think that’s incredible.
P: yeah
I: And that’s the sort of thing. You’ve got your lap top, and you’ve got your, and you can even like do faxmail off your laptop
P: yeah, right, right
I: You’re actually. That is replacing everything.
P: yeah. I think that’s the other, in terms of like e-commerce involving customers, the other great advantage for companies is that they can reduce the number of sites and shops, physical shops that they have to have eventually. And they’re still doing it using their existing infrastructure. And they’re like tagging the e-commerce services on. But the way it will go in the future, it will be just sort of like an office with a warehouse, which will replace the shop… Shall we have a look at a few Websites
I: yeah, sure
P: and get your views about them. Now (logging on – talk about ‘phone sockets etc)
I: you’ve actually got a Dell haven’t you?
P: I have, but it’s got the Microsoft
I: Oh well, there you go
P: Takes a while to power up this one
I: It’s quite nice though, a nice thin one isn’t it?
P: Yeah, it’s not bad
I: I’ve got a huge laptop that I really hate carrying around. The company got one
P: yeah right, their quite heavy aren’t they? I: oh.
P: just connecting to work. See if I can do that – if not we’ll try Compuserve – and I have a Freeserve one as well.
I: oh right
P:  just try this. (modem noise) doesn’t like that does it? I: yeah, That’s a direct line that – so you shouldn’t have any problems.
P: something went wrong, didn’t it. Let’s try this here. I think the settings may have been changed. For the dial-up. Yeah. I’ll have to reconfigure them (modem noise)
I: That’s terribly loud. Can you turn it down?
P: yeah, you can turn it down.
I: You don’t use this on an ongoing basis do you.
P: no, that’s right this is for the project
I: right
P: used by other people. Oh ok everything’s alright. I think we’ve got something here. Got our favourites on here. Netscape on there. There it is. Got the websites listed.
I: right
P: bookmarks, Ah here we go.
I: Dixons
P: ah ok, shall we try one of these? Which one shall we look at?
I: erm, Is that autos as in cars
P: yeah, I think that’s an American one. Shall we try it anyway? Have a look at it?
I: yeah…. It’s quite powerful this
P: yeah, although it’s not
I: superfast
P: no, not superfast but everything seems to work very well on it
I: yeah, it looks and it sounds efficient.
P: yeah.
I: yeah, my one, I mean, the dial up thing, after about two or three weeks it disappeared and I spoke to the IT guy and said; ‘ why doesn’t it make the dialling noise? ‘Oh well, the software’s obviously taken that little bit out because its conflicting with something and I thought oh. And it does it by itself, I don’t understand how
P: no. Cos they’ve got conflicts. The conflict on this one I found was between the modem and the infra red. And I had to turn the Infra red off… Here we go. So this is a buy and sell Auto
I: uhu
P: which one.. do you want to have a go?
I: I was going to say, what’s that thing up there
P: oh yeah, it’s a funny mouse isn’t it?
I: can you actually click the style of car you want?
P: looks like it. Yeah, you can select a make here.
I: ah, let’s go for err, the obvious one
P: Ferrari!…. yes, so this is an American company.
I: Oh right.
P: They might not give it to us without a zip code… so that’s telling you they’ve got no security at this point. So that means someone could track you searching the site to see what kind of cars you are interested in.
I: oh right, zip code, oh yes, car reviews
P: oh that’s interesting. So that must be trade reviews of car performance.
I: erm, what do you want to do?
P: I don’t know I just thought we’d play around with the site, talk about it and see what we thought about it really.
IL oh, ok. Erm. Shell we have a look at. Well buy new, well now if I put, erm, a Zsip code in here, will it recognise it?
P: yeah, well they have a data base really of zip codes. 
I: really, what all over the world?
P: well, probably it’s an American one, so they probably only accept American because they deliver it within America. If we put a legitimate zip code in there it will probably carry on. Shall we try it?
I: yeah,
P: try a zip code.
I: put my one in. (Ping) Oh, it obviously doesn’t even take the amount of digits. Um, erm, I’m just trying to think of an American one, actually. Would it do it for a company?
P: might do. we’ll see if it’s err (taps in zip code). This should be quite funny. It’s my boss in the States. He’ll probably get a mailer full of crap from Ferrari and wonder how the hell erm.I coul buy it on his behalf
P: not without his credit card number.
I: No, that’s the only problem. 
P: There we go. That’s got us in anyway.
I: Sorry there are currently no Autoweb dealers in your area. That offer you a service
P: oh wow.
I: oh right, so it actually tracks it by area?
P: oh yeah. They get the zip codes, check on it and if they haven’t got a dealership in that area you can’t buy. That’s interesting, so there not like, that’s what I was saying how this was an example of a website that’s linked to an existing infrastructure
I: uhum
P: So, you can’t, they’re not going to deliver outside their normal modes of delivery. So if you don’t happen to be in an an area with a dealership, that’s it, you can’t use this site
I: yes
P: and they don’t even let you continue with the use of the site
I: no
P: unless you’ve got a zip code that has a dealership in their area. That’s quite interesting
I: Shame really, cos I was quite looking forward to seeing some models or something or some pictures
P: well exactly. We could try, I don’t know if we could get a British based one. There we are. OK, so here’s a British based one. OK
I: oh wow. This is the magazine isn’t it? Aototrader.
P: yeah
I: yeah. Oh right, I didn’t realise they ..
P: had got a website. Quite a lot of the trade magazines have gone on line
I: right
P: which is interesting because predominantly so far they’ve got their money by selling magazines but
I: of course
P: clearly they see this – yeah go on
I:  I was going through the shopping centre and err
P: let’s see what they’ve got
I:  So you can get information on insurance, finance,
P: yeah… so what do you think of the site? And the way they’re laying it out and so on?
I: erm, I like the colouring and everything, but, I like sites which are more simplistic. You know when there are too many things going on
P: right
I: Things flashing and moving, I find it quite distracting
P: yeah
I: erm, you know I like more simplistic, colourful.  I mean I quite like that, I think that’s
P: that’s quite nice, there’s a lot of information all around it. Oh we’ve got three flashing areas!
I: well this is it, I’m just trying to wonder what actually to click on, whether it was these, or whether in fact it’s these. In fact I think it’s both
P: you can do either
I: yeah
P: they’ve got a bookstore. So is that about cars do you think or
I: shall we?
P: yeah, let’s try it..interesting
I: Internet bookshop
P: oh I see, so this is a connection through their site
I: it’s a link isn’t it?
P: yeah, a link to an Internet bookshop. That’s another thing that’s developing
I: Haynes manuals. Not that I’m a big fan of those. I remember buying one many years ago and it was absolutely useless, couldn’t make head or tail of it.
P: yes, I’ve got a car and someone bought me one of those. I don’t know why they bought it. I suppose it might be interesting to look at the details of the engine and the parts of the car.
I: Possibly
P: but this thing about, also the thing that is going on is that if you trade through that link, so if we were now to buy a book then the autotrader might get a percentage
I: right
P: for that purchase. That’s a thing that’s developing a lot online marketing. I mean it’s a small percentage but they its, its
I: yeah but its volume isn’t it?
P: exactly. So if you get a site that works well and through which people then go. That’s partly to overcome this problem you were talking about about the search engines not being efficient.
I: right
P: this way people can get to what they want to through links on sites that they know rather than. But they’ve really gone for this, if we go back to that they’ve gone for that quite explicitly on this site haven’t they cos, if we go back to the home page we’ve got a whole range of links
I: I didn’t expect hardly any 
P: no, I thought it would just be about cars
I: exactly
P: but in fact they’re really putting on on the top page they’re saying ‘look, use as as a link to all these…’ that’s more salient on the programme than the actual cars being sold
I: yeah
P: oh they’ve got an auction, shall we look at that?
I: yeah.  Autotrader online auction
P: oh auction cars. Well that’s interesting because again it’s not just cars. It’s a whole range of stuff. How interesting
I: Yeah it is
P: this is Autotrader diversifying through their presence on the web
I: that is. I’ve not seen things like this actually. Generally speaking the sites that I’ve been into, they are just specific to the company.
P: yeah
I: And sometimes you get the odd link
P: right
I: I mean I’ve been sometimes on the FT one and you’ll get another thing flashing up at the top saying, you know, I don’t know, Money World or Investors Chronicle or whatever
P: right
I: you know trying sort of to grab your attention to take you somewhere else
P: right, that’s a banner advert, but this is different isn’t it
I: yes, this is quite vast actually
P: then you’re getting into, yeah, its amazing. What shall we try, what about computer hardware?
I: uhum
P: do you think there’s a…. what do you think about this because this is, well, autotrader, would they have gone in for this kind of diversification without the Net do you think or is this 
I: No, I think this is just an easy way for them. I mean it costs them probably almost nothing and they’re, you know, adding business to their site
P: yeah
I: erm, you know, you’ve explained how it works. No, I don’t think half these companies would. Imean, they’ve got nothing to lose though. If you know you’ve got these things on there you’re more than likely maybe to come back. Erm, see if I was going to look for something to do with PCs I would go onto a site and try and find PC World because that’s the retailer that I know the most, so
P: but here we can do an auction – I mean here the biding on this Palm Pilot is only ninety quid, I mean, that’s pretty good
I: yeah, red hot.  you’re tempted to buy that aren’t you?
P: yeah, I am
I: yeah, I thought you were looking at that
P: what’s the date today? That’s today’s date no that’s tomorrow
I: well I’m quite interested in the palm pilot as well actually.
P: what do they normally cost? They’re more than that aren’t they?
I: oh yeah. Duty free, I always like looking at them duty free. Palm Pilot 3’s quite good actually, one of the guys from the States brought one over 
P: but that’s fantastic – and there’s a Toshiba notebook
I: thing is you don’t know if its been dropped, I presume it hasn’t.
P: presumably these are new
I: actually why don’t you click on there and see
P: see what they say
I: something pertinent to the condition of the 
P: yeah. Oh, I see,
I: oh. Boxed, as new and still with ten months warranty all software instruction provided.
P: so this is, this is not actually Autotrader that are running this, this is
I: QXL
P: QXL Exchange. So now that interesting cos we’re still under the Autotrader banner aren’t we?
I: yeah
P: cos on the side bar you’d still think we were in Autotrader
I: yes
P: In fact we thought we were. They must be on a percentage of the commission if you err
I: yeah. List all items for this seller, because,, seller rating. What does that mean?
P: I don’t know
I: Product offered by some, well it’s got somebody’s name there. Now I wonder if that was a retailer
P: well exactly, cos, there’s no comments there, under the rating… You’re right, so this might be retailers off loading stuff, or whatever
I:  Yeah, well you know they’ve got Pal Pilot 5 now
P: no I didn’t
I: In the States, yeah. The problem, see the thing is, well I know this was gonna  be developing on but. You basically buy an air time contract with it because the way it works its got a little arial on the side and as you flip it up, it automatically links up with erm, a Web system and erm, you pay for so many pages a month, I mean its quite expensive at the moment. They were telling me something like you know, you pay seventy dollars a month, something like that and you get twenty pages. But if you pay, you know so much more for each… I didn’t understand it fully.
P: I see so that’s part. This person’s getting rid of this now because the bottom, the price of these won’t be worth
I: yes
P: he’s got a minimum bid of twenty pounds on it so he clearly just wants to get rid of it, but also it’s interesting he’s got a BMW, a Camcorder, two camcorders and a palm pilot. Interesting
I: but this is an individual not a store
P: well I think it must be because the diversity, I mean a car and a 
I: yeah, yeah
P: so it’s an individual
I: we should put a bid in for twenty pounds shouldn’t we?
P: ah well the bidding is already up to ninety pounds
I: where is that?
P: This is like, this page says..
I: oh I see
P: what he’s offering
I: oh right and then
P: so that’s his minimum price
I: oh
P: and his Hitatchi Camcorder is a hundred minimum
I: but that seems silly because what will eventually happen is if people start bidding a little bit and a little bit more, it’ll end up getting to a value which for a second hand product, you know, of that type
P: well that’s the auction problem isn’t it
I: mmm
P: but this is, he’s got an M reg BMW 318 there and he wants 3500 for it
I: that seems extremely cheap. A 95
P: Let’s see what the current bidding on it is
I: that must have horrendous mileage on it
P: unless, cos he’s put £20 for the he’s put… here we are,, where is it now?
I: look, Sony 10 disc cd mulitplayer player in it as well, full service history, that seems extremely cheap to me
P: oh current bid, someone’s bid 6900
I: yeah, so that was really…
P: that’s his low starting price
I: yeah. That seemed but he’s obviously really wants to get shot of it or he knows that people will bid well over the top anyway
P: right
I: but that just seemed so cheap it was unreal. It’s very clever actually.
P: it is isn’t it?
I: I’ve not come across anything like this before
P: well, I suppose it has some of the feel of an auction, doesn’t it, because you can check the current prices, 
I: mmm. So that’s his..
P: that’s a picture of it there. It looks alright.
I: yes it does. So, and these are the bids are they? These are the bids
P:  yeah right, those are the bids and these are the people who made them
I: that’s right, that’s incredible
P: that’s very interesting. You don’t get that in an auction, its anonymous. Here you actually see who’se been bidding.
I: You know, there’s no,
P: Interesting.  They tell you stuff they’ve actually sold here, presumably, the results of the auction. These are the ones they’ve sold presumably,
I: yeah
P: let’s have a quick look at what they’ve sold. See whether it’s a good market or not.
I: Radar detector, Cobra
P: nice oh this one’s still on – so they’re all cars. So the Ford Orion 1.6, it’s a repossession and the bidding’s only at £350
I: wow
P: amazing – and the bidding ends tomorrow
I: that’s amazing
P: so that’s very interesting, so that means a finance company is using this way of auctioning off the good
I: yeah
P: I see it’s a good way for them of .. current bid is 325, That’s amazing and you only have to pay 375 to get in there next. Or you can put a limit. You can put a bid limit on and say – oh I’ll go up to 500 and they’ll automatically do it. That’s very good
I:  very clever
P: it is
I: Well, in fact, erm, I’ve been meaning to set up a share account and erm, cos you can trade shares now over the
P: yeah you can. We’ll try a sharing account next, shall we. This is interesting look, cos some of these are commercial aren’t they?
I: probably yeah. TJC Ford, yeah, that’s got to be
P: cos it’s an Orion. So this is a… so companies have got on to this. Pick up a repossession Orion very cheap and sell it.. So it’s like an open… So there it is, it’s been impounded
I: obviously (Laughter) it’s sort of got clamps all over it and err. You know why, it’s a repossession cos the guy got it clamped its been in the pound for so long that it’s lost all its value. Well I saw something on TV about that it was incredible. Oh yeah, well they took the car cos that was the only thing that he had and the guy knocked on the door and he was an old man and he says erm, can I have your keys please for the car, we’ve come to take it away. Isn’t that awful
P: that’s terrible. I don’t know, let’s .. this is M&G I’m just going to have a quick look at
I: What M&G funds
P: yeah
I: oh right
P: its unit trusts and things rather than shares but it will give us an idea. Right. Cos I think again what you can do here is you can just invest variable amounts now, say in ISA’s or the different funds that they have and you can just do it online so if you’ve got you’ve got a debit card you just say oh I’ll put this much in. Sort of like increasing flexibility
I: yeah
P: cos previously 
I: oh yeah, you had to keep to a certain amount and you couldn’t stop it.
P: Shall we find out more about them, or shall we go to financial intermediaries, we might get some share sites there
I: yeah, I’m just trying to think of the name of the erm, is e-comm, e, oh I’ve forgotten the names.
P: They haven’t got any stocks on here
I: ah that’s it, Charles Swab is one stocktrade is another
P: oh stocktrade
I: www.stocktrade.co.uk
P: yeah, let’s try that, great… interesting
I: yeah it is isn’t it – like little chess pieces. 
P: oh they’ve fallen over, we’ve lost
I: oh yeah, doesn’t look too good does it
P: but that’s a different approach to the website isn’t it, it’s sort of cleaner and not so flashy
I: yeah
P: oh they’ve got the FTSE so you can check your shares. You get information or trade. And they’v got knowledge. Presumably that’s their advice. What shall we try?
I: let’s try information.
P: ok
I: see what they give
P: oh ok, it’s about the service
I: oh
P: oh there’s a demo. Shall we look at the demo? Oh I see that’s just. Oh I see
I: oh they’re all demos
P: oh that’s very interesting. So you can view stocks, select stocks, err get the history of a share, you  can presumably value, you can try different portfolios and get. Well it looks interesting, which one shall we look at?
I: there are so many aren’t there? Shall we view or select. View stocks?
P: yeah
I: see whether it’s err,
P: here we go
I: oh right
P: so that’s the bid and the offer price and that’s what,  that’s it’s movement – oh look BAA is going down.
I: It’s like an attached spreadsheet isn’t it?
P: yeah, it’s amazing. That’s the current bid and offer price, that’s it. Oh this is the demo, presumably that’s got all the prices on there and you just go
I: that’s very clever. Select 
P: yeah ok let’s check that out. Ok. So they’ve got a little
I: yeah you just put in your name and
P: yeah right, but I don’t think we can actually work, no, but, so that’s easy to find the shares
I: yeah
P: and err, placing an order. That’s it, so you just say buy or sell, say what the stock is. It’s amazing. And just, presumably here, yes, there you are, just place
I: right
P: how do you pay, presumably they’ve got your
I: pay later
P: yeah, if it goes up,
I: yeah, that’s right.
P: how do you? Maybe, if you do place an order you do get another window
I: yeah
P: asking for your money
I: I would have thought they would have to have some kind of reserve cos even a normal stock broker has to have either the money up front or a reserve maximum.
P: yeah, this could be anyone
I: yeah we’re not that trustworthy
P: so this is the history, this is how many are being shifted of a particular
I: uhu
P: ah so you see BAA is going down so lots of people are buying it. 100 of those have been bought. Yeah that’s interesting isn’t it. Yes so people are buying that because the price has gone down.
I: that’s interesting.
P: so you can also see what other people are doing, and shadow that. How interesting.
I: Portfolio analysis
P: yeah, I wonder what this does?
I: Ah, that’s Tesco,. I presume you pick and it, so if you buy them it puts them in here and it keeps a total of them for you
P: got you. Its your, you have a portfolio. You can view your current holdings, deposit balance and funds available for investment holding. Right, ok
I: that’s very clever isn’t it?
P: Yeah You can keep, it gives you your portfolio
I:  It will track you, yeah
P: tells you how its doing and what each one’s contributing to it. In, well not black and red, in blue and pink.
I: little bit of artistic licence after having a very
P: they don’t like the red
I: obviously not
P: what’s this knowledge thing? Oh this is the results of the research they are doing
I: oh right
P: there’s nothing in it yet. But they’re going to 
I: well maybe they’re going to be offering a service so you can get reports and stuff. Yeah
P: excellent
I: I wonder what the links are?
P: Oh well you can go to the stock exchange
I: probably useful ones
P: non-competitive
I: yeah
P: non-competitive contacts. The Economist
I: oh that’s very clever
P: Royal Bank of Scotland, oh right.  Oh, so that’s pretty good isnlt it?
I: yeah, very good
P: oh. And there’s the FSA, the financial regulating authority.
I: I quite like the site ass well because it’s very. It’s quite simplistic isn’t it, it’s not too fussy and it’s very easy to read and
P: yeah
I: yeah I quite like that
P: but they’ve got some interesting tools in it haven’t they?
I: yeah
P: the spreadsheets, and the ordering form was very clear. Yeah, its pretty good. What else shall we look at?
I: Err,
P:  you say you’ve looked at Tesco?
I: Yes, I looked at it some time ago mind
P: Let’s have another look because they updated that
I: I wonder if, one useful one to go in to is Wallmart. Cos you know they’ve just bought ASDA
P: yes I know
I: and err, everyone’s quaking in their boots here, There’s like ‘oh god’.
P: well they’ve been making a lot of profit they’re probably right to be quaking in their boots
I: oh they’re huge, they’re 27 billion dollars a year. Erm, they’re one of the biggest single employers in the whole of America. It’s like err, Up to 30% off all batteries. Right at the beginning, I would have thought.  I would have thought they’d have a little shopping basket with discounts, you know special discounts so you can go into it and order
P: well I think that’s once you into the Tesco’s sight. I mean that’s a bit of a fussy
I: mmm Oh, interesting
P: so here you put your customer ID
I: oh right, this is connected with getting one of those cards isn’t it?
P: yeah right
I: those shopping cards. Ah well you didn’t have to do that before, that’s new.
P: I’ve got an ID for this. (taps in ID)
I: So does that mean you’re either an existing customer, a new customer
P: or you can have a sample
I: just a little sample right. But what? The new customer means you can go in basically without err,
P: you go into a registration.
I: so basically start collecting your information and
P: that’s right
I: very clever, so they can start mail shotting you as well
P: that’s right. No well you can elect not to be mail shotted
I: oh really. 
P: so. 
I: Oh right, it tells you what your store is.
P: right, that’s interesting because they’ve got information about me, they know which store I live closest to that I haven’t got a club card registration.
I: oh well, excellent graphics. Very, very clear
P: very clear
I: Yeah the first page was pretty crap. Sorry but it 
P: It was wasn’t it but this
I: this is incredible
P: it’s very nice
I: The resolution on the stuff is
P: it’s excellent isn’t it
I: oh that’s impressive, I don’t think I’ve seen as good pictures on any other website actually.
P: yeah it’s pretty good isn’t it.
I: how do they get that resolution then?
P: I don’t know. It is very clear though isn’t it?
I: yeah 
P: it’s not. So we can get special offers now we’re in the shopping site. So. And here they are. So these are the offers they’ve got on at the moment.
I: Strawberry Pavlova
P: Mind you, it looks like there’s only one of them live there. 
I: uhum
P: oh I see these are
I: end dates. It’s got end dates up there.
P: These are buy one get second half price.
I: right
P: There not like, reductions.
I: oh we had a Tesco’s promotion actually and I was just. That would have been interesting. Must have finished by now. 
P: what a product promotion with Tescos.
I: yeah. Can you actually search by product? To get a price?
P: which one. These are the categories.
I: erm, X.
P: where is it then.
I: I think it would come under general foods then
P: they haven’t got a X category have they.
I: no
P: is it groceries?
I: yes, yeah. 
P: we might get sub categories within that now. Right. Soups, X,
I: X
P: There we are. So that’s a…
I: pasta that little picture
P: yeah, it’s the wrong picture isn’t it? There you go and you can pick your ..
I: Christmas – that’s interesting, we’re no where near christmas at the moment. That’s interesting. There we are, that’s us 59 pence. That’s. Oh right. Christ I didn’t even realise that we sold that any more. That’s funny. Right. Now that’s not in fact. I’ll speak to our guy. That’s not very clever because it says XY 300 grams. What so you understand by that?
P: 300 grams of X
I: of what? – ready to eat X
P: yes.
I: not at all. It’s microwave.
P: oh
I: Isn’t that awful
P: There we are you see
I: Very important. I’m gonna ‘phone up my guy when you leave. I’m gonna tell him, oy you ring up the buyer at Tesco.
P: well that’s one of the issues here that they get the product descriptions some from the, well, you know the strips on the ordering
I: oh, right
P: yeah, right, rather than having used descriptions that make sense to the user or the popular name of the product. That’s one criticism you could make of the site I think
I: interesting
P: cos some of these are not very clear descriptions. These ones aren’t too bad on the whole in here
I: no. They’re not. The problem is nobody can understand by that what the product is. They’ll make the assumption it’s ready to eat.
P: you see that’s the problem to actually being in the store where you can actually see the product
I: of course.  Interesting
P: but you’re right, that would be a source of dissatisfaction if they ordered that. Yeah right. Oh that’s interesting
I: that is actually.  I didn’t expect to see. Cos initially it was only a selected number of goods.
P: yeah
I: so now they list everything I presume. Wow
P: The whole thing
I: it’s incredible.
P: off licence
I: So you can, you know, your housewife or whatever, you’re sitting at home, you don’t really want to be bothered and probably, I don’t know, I don’t know, but I suspect that once you’ve done your shopping list and they’ve got one shopping list, they probably keep it, like on a. put it in your favourites or something
P: yeah
I: and then go back and ‘oh this week I don’t need that so I won’t’
P: yeah, that’s right. In fact we’re doing this online at the moment but you can download the product file and do it offline
I: so you don’t have to keep
P: yeah when your selecting and then you can just order online only
I: right
P: Oh ok, here we go, this list again
I: yeah
P: Interesting
I: yeah. I think one thing is. One comment I would make about that is the words on the left. They could be a bit clearer if they didn’t have all that background. You know the white doesn’t really stand out sometimes against the er
P: No your right. I think one of the things they’re trying to deal with there is that compared to shopping this is a bit. It’s list based so it’s a bit boring 
I: yeah
P: and they’re trying to 
I: oh yeah. Well they could have pictures couldn’t they? I thought you’d get a virtual walk down the aisle. Grab your product. That would be a lot more fun wouldn’t it?
P: be very good. 
I: and, you know, as you touch on the product it will come up, you know like when you got the little hand or whatever and it shoots across the descriptor
P: yeah that would be good
I: that would be a lot more fun
P: it would, but they’re. What is it 20,000 products?
I: yeah, probably be some hard work there. Somebody’s sitting there. Can you imagine and how many of those change. To keep this updated.
P: well exactly.
I: it’s a big job isn’t it?
P: yeah. What have I ordered? Iced buns and golden delicious apples.
I: Was this in the past?
P: I was showing this programme to someone a couple of days ago. To try it out we ordered those things
I: and did you actually get them?
P: No, we didn’t order them.
I: oh right.
P: shopping basket. That stays live and you can add to it as you go.
I: oh. Yeah. How does that work, say with beef or lamb, and you know, I wanna lean piece of lamb. Do you just order lamb?
P: yes. No they haven’t got anything in that. What have they got here? All right so that’s.  doesn’t look like you can specify anything about it. Oops – not allowed to press return. So that’s now in our shopping basket. Yeah, there we are. It’s got that in it now. 
I: Oh right
P: and our total price is that. 
I: yeah.
P: and you get an order number for a particular shop. 
I: right. And I presume there’s a minimum amount to charge
P: no, there’s no minimum amount but they charge you for delivery. Five pounds for delivery.
I: regardless of the amount?
P: yeah.
I: oh right
P: so that’s not worth..
I: I thought they would do it on the basis that over a certain amount you don’t get charged in order to incentivise you
P: well yeah
I: that would be a better way of doing it.
P: it’s good idea, isn’t it, but they’ve decided to go for a flat charge. 
I: flat charge, yeah, which they’re still probably subsidising heavily.
P: they must be. Five pound charge, cos when you think of what’s in the background of this service 
I: yeah
P: I mean, it’s the same products at the same price that at the moment in the same shop and they’ve got all the additional
I: of course.
P: to provide a service
I: well if everyone started ordering through the Internet, I presume the stores would slowly disappear.
P: well that’s right, if in people did it, I suppose
I: yeah you wouldn’t need, you’d just purely have a distribution centre
P: Yeah, right, a big warehouse out on the M25.
I: yeah. Which is almost what they are anyway.
P: that’s true. Have you heard about the other, well I think
I: it’s quite interesting that, it’s very good. I glad I saw the X.  and err
P: what else can I show you? There’s all sorts of
I: it’s err, very interesting. How it’s developed cos I haven’t properly been into this for a couple of years.
P: right
I: It really has, absolutely transformed
P: it has hasn’t it?  Oh look, we’ve moved.
I: www.loot.com
P: They’ve got auctions too
I: oh right.
P: everyone’s getting into it.
I: wow. And this is like, you can place a free ad. Like they do in the normal Loot
P: yeah
I: and café
P: café, what’s that?
I: yeah, I was just going to say, oh no
P: must check that out.
I: you go in for a cyber coffee.
P: oh it’s a chat room
I: oh right. Yeah, must be.
P: and they’ve got a privacy policy and everything. What is that? Ah right, so they’re telling you what they do about information gathered: ‘when you register with Loot we ask for the following details:’ basic information about us, email, and it’s entered into the customer data base and it also finds out your browser type, your Internet domain and we use cookies to save your online ID.
I: yer. Wish the Yahoo one would do that
P: and this is what they do with the information
I: yeah
P: but they do share it with advertisers and partners on an aggregate basis.
I: I didn’t think they were allowed to do that without your permission. Isn’t it part of the Data Protection Act?
P: I think it’s interesting this because its erm, the information they’re holding on you is either public information about you, or it’s information about what you’ve done actually on their site. Like they track all the products you’re interested in and so on
I: mmm
P: you can see how it could be useful that they could sell this on to advertisers. If you’re searching for particular products then
I: I saw a thing on electronic foot-printing
P: yeah right
I: and they have these companies now that specialise in that and these other companies that specialise in not having you electronically hooked into it so that you can’t be tracked
P: that’s right
I: so. Because that is becoming big big business
P: yeah It is. This is the next thing that everyone’s working on, what added value can you get from the information that you get from consumers?
I: yeah but I suspected that even before I saw the thing on it because I’d be, you know, looking at something, and then something else would flash up and something else would flash up, that’s interesting why all of a sudden. And even sometimes when you’re looking at something completely different, you’ll still get things flashing back because they’ve tacked on that if say your look at that, I don’t know, say sports or something you suddenly get information coming at you about it because they’re saying ‘you’re interested in that, or you have been at some stage’
P: and what do you think about that development?
I: I think it’s interesting. I think there is an element of you don’t like to be tracked and, I mean it’s the same thing with this CCTV camera thing and, you know, there’s been abuse with that and the same thing with this. You don’t want people maybe to know what your interests are. If you’re happy to share them with a company it’s one thing
P: right
I: but to share them with one particular company and then find that fifty other companies in the financial sector are all you know trying to pitch for your business as well it’s a bit of overkill
P: right, right
I: you know, so it’s nice for you to be able to share information with a company that you feel, say if it were First Direct? I’m happy with First Direct so I don’t mind sharing information with them. Say, erm, I don’t know, a competitive bank gets information and  all of a sudden I’m getting mail shot or electronically shot, I don’t know what you call it, by the Royal Bank of Scotland, 
P: yeah, yeah
I: You know. So erm, it is a little bit worrying in that sense.
P: another aspect of it is that they’re going to.. it’s the development of intelligent agent software so that they’re not just holding information about you they’ll be able to analyse it in quite a complex way, getting quite a sophisticated view of your preferences over a whole product range. Cos Their not just giving information away but they’ll be able to share it with other companies.
I: right.
P: So they’ll be able to know more about you than just what you do on their site as it were.
I: right
P: and build up quite an interesting profile.
I: right, but you know it does get a bit worrying. I mean I saw a thing on I think it was Grattan catalogues. The amount of information that the guy said they could even get to the point where, you know, they can more or less gauge an idea of how your house would be decorated, err, your lifestyle, err the whole and that is a little bit over the top isn’t it. I mean they’re really, and and and some of them they were absolutely, almost 100% accurate.
P: yeah
I: and that is spooky, because that means that they’re almost intruding to the point where they know the inside of your house, your lifestyle, your preferences. I mean, its I mean its progress  from the companies side but at the same time it’s a little bit unnerving thinking that people know more about you than you believe they do.
P: right, right. You see, I don’t think that’s covered is it, by data protection as such, so regulating that would be tricky. Cos its not like they’ve got secrets about you that you don’t want them to have it’s that they’ve come to understand you in a way that’s perhaps more sophisticated than you’d like.
I: mmm But the thing is you can’t regulate the Internet. So, you know, erm I just out of interest once, cos I’d heard these things and I went in to see how to build a nuclear bomb and ok its not in there in real depth but its got a diagram, it’s got erm, you know, it lists components, erm, you’re not going to be able to get hold of this stuff and maybe. You know, it’s already giving a lot more information and maybe it’s down at the local library. Maybe, I don’t know, maybe you can look it up in a book or something. But the fact that it’s on here erm, it’s so easily accessible, er it it alerts you to things. I mean, you know, erm and and erm what’s the other one? It’s some saw how to make gunpowder and blew his finger off  or whatever.
P: yeah
I: erm, At the end of the day it’s a computer, everyone’s got a computer now, that’s not such a big initial cost. So it does become a little bit dangerous. I wonder if at some stage sites will be password protected for age groups? 
P: I think that’s very difficult to do from the site end isn’t it because they’re reliant on the information that they have about the person going online and then that’s usually linked to a particular computer. So if the computer is in a family whose on
I: that’s right. Well eventually they’ll assign you a pin number
P: right
I: by individual, so they will know, you know, you or me and when you sign on. I mean they know your email address I suppose. The only it won’t work, I presume is on the freeware ones maybe more so but, I suppose they could do that couldn’t they, that wouldn’t be so difficult.
P: I don’t know who would do it I suppose that’s the question
I: yes
P: Clearly Loot is trying to make their policy quite open and explicit. But that’s, well just based on the sites we’ve seen today that’s unusual isn’t it
I: yes
P: I mean none of the others have said ‘oh here’s our policy’
I: not at all
P: it’s interesting. So I think for the most part this is gonna be not visible to the
I: no, that what I was going to say, you’ve got to be looking and searching for that. The majority of people wouldn’t even, oh yes – security
P: so there’s that that’s what they’re now doing. They claim it’s safer than using it over the ‘phone. Interesting isn’t it? And that’s a chat room. Oh that’s interesting, you can inspect your personal details. You can find out what it is they know about you. That’s quite an open policy isn’t it?
I: that’s probably updating their data base as well so
P: (laughs) 
I:  You know, if you’ve moved house they wanna make sure you’ve
P: yes that’s true there’s some value 
I: oh yeah there’s positive and a negative to that isn’t there?
P: yes, that’s true. Alright. That’s great. And they’re doing auctions to.
I: so do you study the Internet? Or?
P: that’s one of the things I’m doing yeah.
I: oh right, so you must know quite a lot of what’s going on and what’s current and
P: but as you say it’s all moving so quickly and so many changes are happening it’s difficult to keep uo with. I mean I’ve learned a few new things today
I: oh look, Rolex GMT wanted.
P: yeah
I: I mean that’s presumably they want to buy a second hand one do you think?
P: yes. Interesting. Its from Manchester.
I: oh I’m going to have to start looking a these sites.
P: It’s not bad is it? OK. Good. So is there anything else to say about this.
I: well it’s made me a lot more aware because I don’t really surf you know I go in and look at specific things and erm don’t you it for as much fun things
P: right
I: just err, I haven’t really got the time unfortunately
P: no
I: but erm, to surf around and look at erm, you know leisure things your know. I did the other day, you know a Brazilian singer I thought I wonder if, I put it on there, it’s got the history, where he was born, the whole thing and I thought wow. This guys an unknown in Europe and err yeah you could find all about him it’s all on there, incredible.
P: I like the CDNOW site where you can play clips of tracks
I: oh, I’ve never heard of that. Oh that’s pretty cool
P: yeah. Using this programme Realplayer you can, you don’t play the whole track you just get a sample. 
I: I wonder if I’ve got Realplayer on mine? P: you can download it if you haven’t it’s freeware.
I: is it? So is that Realplayer.com or something?
P: Yeah, but if you go to CDNow then they’ll give you a link to get it
I: so what’s that? CD,
P: CDNOW.com. OK, that’s great. Thanks very much interesting
I: Excellent. No I found that extremely interesting. Very enjoyable. 

Ut40

Ut40, single male, C2DE, Hi IT

I: Interviewee
P: Interviewer

P: right, we’re talking to a lot of people about the Internet generally but particularly about the development of shopping on the Internet and what they think about that. Different issues about it.
I: right
P: and we’ll look at some websites and get your views about them
I: uhu
P: in a bit
I: ok
P: but can I just start by asking you what your experience with computers is?
I: yeah. I surf the Web quite a lot, erm, trying to find out bits of information on various sorts of things really.
P: right
I: erm, and that tends to erm, give you links, 
P: right
I: and jog your mind for looking at associated things.
P: right
I: So you might be searching for one thing and go on to another thing.
P: yeah.
I: erm,,
P: is there any particular thing your interested in or is it anything that comes up?
I: erm, yeah, it’s a variable thing. I look at erm, some of the things I’m interested in is signal processing, yeah, so I’ll find out things on that
P: right
I:  algorithms, bits of electronics, stuff like that
P: right
I: erm, so that’s what I do for that. Other things that I use the Net for is just to see what’s out there.
P: right. What just to keep an eye on
I:  Just keep abreast of
P: yeah
I: what’s going on you know
P: right
I: erm, I tend to as well use it to like finding out about software and how cheap things are
P: right
I: cos, erm I see it’s like the only, it’s one of the ways to go using that but like all things it gets abused. You know people have got too much trust in it. People have got too much trust in computers anyway.
P: Generally?
I: yeah, yeah, yeah, like the year 2000 is a good one. I’m not sure if you want all this sort of stuff
P: No, yeah go on, so your saying you think people are too trusting of computers?
I: oh they are too trusting, their too much erm, I mean they used to use for example in their business paper databases before computers came out and now their worried about the Y2K problem and thinking everything’s going to fold up. You know.
P: yeah
I: we can always go back to that. You know it may be a little bit more difficult but it can be done. So um, I err, I look at computers just in a sense to see how people respond to them. Computers and technology themselves, people I know won’t be thrown by it but people in the street will go out and hoard their cash and buy loads of food
P: right
I: just in case. You know you hear this kind of stuff.
P: so you think there might be some sort of panic to some extent?
I: There might be. There may be a few computers go down, and it will get blown out of proportion.
P: right
I: As the media will do. The media likes, sort of news like that so they blow it out, you know
P: right
I: erm a few people will get hurt by it but in general it should be ok.
P: right
I: the Y2K thing and the millennium.
P: right.
I: but it’s a case of wait and see
P: absolutely. Some airlines aren’t going to run are they?
I: yeah
P: until they’ve checked it out.
I: those would have been one of the first things they would have checked up on simply because they have embedded electronics in there and they have date stamps on. I mean it’s a funny thing cos I was reading a while back two months ago now  I was looking through some of my books and I looked up the MSDOS programmers reference and the date is like 1980. And looking at the date functions then, this is back in 1980, they already take into account, you know they store the date as a four digit thing.
P: oh ok
I: so, I mean this is 1980
P: yeah
I: makes you sort of wonder a little bit what really is going on because they knew it then, you know
P: yeah
I: so erm
P: but that’s been one of the main things that’s been publicised about computers I suppose. But on the other hand there is a positive err, press for computers as well isn’t there.
I: The positive things are that it allows people, for example to shop on the Internet and thereby get things cheaper.
P: yeah
I: you can search and get things a lot cheaper than you would elsewhere. You know
P: right
I: And, I suppose that’s why people will get into it because you don’t have to listen to what people say you can go out and check it out you know.
P: right
I: but shopping on the Net’s quite big now.
P: right
I: It’s all over the place and so you search engines themselves are quite slow. To get the data and that
P: that’s right, there not very sophisticated, the search engines themselves are they?
I: erm, they’ve come on a bit from the way they were
P: yeah
I: The engines, the search engines have erm, a bit of artificial intelligence in that you can ask them erm, English type questions as opposed to just putting words in you can use like Ask Jeeves or something.
P: right
I: you can put in, like, you know a whole question and get much more information back than you would with Yahoo or Alta Vista,
P: yeah
I: Although they do have advanced features that you can use
P: yes but I don’t know if many people use those features actually
I: they wouldn’t use them. No
P: So they get like thousands of answers
I: yeah, yeah
P: but do you think that is the way forward? To build in artificial intelligence then to. I mean in search engines that’s an obvious use.
I: well, I think so, erm, What they’ll be doing with that, with erm, they’ll be increasing the versatility of the queries that they generate.
P: right
I: cos when you put in your search strings it creates queries that go out and search all the different data bases.
P: right
I: em, now with a lot of things that go on, the information that they’ll be using or that they’ll be wanting to access is just bound to include I mean, like their mapping the sky and so their going to store the various images and I know Microsoft are designing a database, they got some stuff from this is a nature magazine and they were looking at building one of the biggest data bases. They made up some names, I can’t remember what the names are, I mean there were terabytes, and this is the amount of data they had to store.
P: yeah right
I: and if you have a large data base it will take time so your going to have to erm, create new methods of searching. You know to bring that time down, search time,
P: right
I: Yeah there is a big push in building data bases and storing data. You’ve got the human genome project erm, so what will happen is you’ll have all this data and someone will come along and want to ask a question which hasn’t been asked before
P: right
I: which will look at matching lots of different things.
P: right
I: erm, so, 
P: yeah, that’s interesting cos there’s more and more information being put out there isn’t there, I mean more and more websites developing
I: mmm
P: crazy.
I: The erm, what was it, the US government in the second world war, had gone out and mapped I think it was the currents in the sea or something and there was 180,000 bits of data all written down it must have been, I couldn’t believe it. So they’re looking to enter this into a data base. So there’s all this past data that they’ve got, out there on paper and stuff from years back and they’re wanting to put onto electronic data bases. It’s just gonna just balloon. Erm so what you’ll have is loads of sites of data, so some of them will store their data in an access data base and some others may use, I don’t know, a spread sheet or something, and all the data will be in different sort of orders and fields and that so, erm, they’ll be, well there must be now a growth in developing versatile query languages that you can use
P: yeah
I: to interrogate data bases of all sorts
P: yeah
I: they must be looking to designers if they’re not looking already, to. So, yeah, there’s a glut of information out there, but once they have it then you have to use the knowledge that you get from it. Make something from that. It’s all very well being able to search for anything, erm, but you need to be quite specific about what you want. Me myself I’m either looking for either cheap flights or erm, cheap or free software or circuit ideas,
P: right
I: I’ve got a reasonable sort of distinct areas I can look in and I also look around other areas. But I think even that most people will tend to narrow down, my own vision must be quite narrow, even though I’d like to broaden it.
P: that’s interesting, I mean what about, cos a lot of these methods are being applied in the area of electronic- commerce, or they’re in the process of being developed. What have you heard about e-commerce
I: what, e-commerce, from what I’ve heard, I can I say that, There’s a lot of it that goes on. The main hurdle, the main problem that people have having was with having secure methods in which you can pass  over with greater security. But, erm, there’s a lot of it, I mean it’s taken off people trade on the Internet you see. Now once you can trade on the Internet, you can get anybody that has a brain to do it.
P: yeah
I: you know, you’ve got all the people in the stock exchange, still quite a closed shop, in a sense. But anybody can get onto the Internet now read up, go to loads of websites, read up how you do these kind of things and start dealing themselves. Erm so that’s what the Internet itself or the Web itself has provided I think it has allowed people to gain access to things that they usually wouldn’t be able to 
P: right
I: And, in a sense, start to make money. This is where the e-commerce, electronic commerce comes into it. Now that will have a knock on effect down the line. But on the whole it will hopefully bring everything up, you see.
P: right
I: For example viruses were a big thing. Erm put that means you have to start writing you programmes much more robust or you have to build in certain firewalls or something. You have to increase your own robustness, you know. So there are good and bad things and eventually everything I think will, or well should get better.  It won’t necessarily get better. The world itself I think, It’s all greed and money. That’s how I see it. The computer itself is like the gun, well it’s not like the gun, but it’s a tool that you can use to make better or to make things better for youself. It’s more an individual thing. You know, you sit down and do it for yourself.
P: right
I: Whereas all the other groups like the stock exchange were groups who had come together
P: I think that’s right that you can do it more as an individual, you don’t have to go out into the pubic places where this kind of trading goes on. But I suppose another side of this is that these sort of databasing techniques that you’ve talked about will also be used in electronic commerce so presumably companies will be able to able to get quite a lot of data about individuals
I: yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
P: so although you’ll have more access to it, in a sense companies will know more about you. Do you think that’s right, or
I: that is, that is erm. I remember talking about this talking about information villages in that you’ll have the people with the information i.e. like the technologists and that and they’ll be in these villages that will be like hemmed in with barbed wire and everybody else who didn’t have any information are on the outside.
P: right
I: erm, now, in a sense that might actually come about. Not as bad as that sort of scenario. But something like that might happen. But yeah, erm you go shopping, You go to Sainsbury’s or Tescos and they’ll take your switch card or whatever and they can see what items you buy, and from that you can always build up a profile. You can go through the shopping that someone does for food, you look at, god, how they spend their money and then you can build up a profile of people and of society as a whole. When it gets to that point and I don’t think it’s too far away, I think it gets quite intrusive. It’s gone the wrong way because it feels like somebody else has got erm, an idea of controlling people in such a way so as to make money.
P: right
I: all it comes down to is either to make money or to control people. You know, so they don’t riot or whatever you know. Erm yeah, the computer, to my mind, where I think it is a good thing but you start to having to think of ways of breaking it. You know looking for ways of breaking a programme. And I don’t like the way that I can go shopping and people could collect data on me and work out something about me so, yeah you start thinking of strategies for getting around these sort of things so you pay for cash.
P:
right
I: but there are loads of other ways you can do it
P: right
I: you know. Yeah I’m afraid that’s on the up
P: There’s sort of a balance I mean cos you’ve said that the advantages are that in one sense the advantages are that you can get access to goods and services that are inaccessible without the Internet. Cheaper prices and so there are some advantages of that kind.
I: yeah, it makes it easier. They’re not necessarily inaccessible.
P: right
I: much more easier to find things that you might want rather than going through yellow pages or things like that
P: right
I: you can ask yourself the question, you know, where would I find a gizmo to do X, Y, or Z and you can look on the Internet and you’ll find something similar.
P: yeah
I: Whereas, if you ask someone in the street you’d get no
P: yeah right
I: erm, and it also you can’t use the ‘phone any more, you just get put in a queuing system
P: yeah right
I: you know and that’s just, that’s just rubbish. Erm… so yes, the trade offs, positive and negative trade offs I think
P: yeah
I: but you were saying
P: yeah, the balance, do you think the balance is shifting? Cos like the Net used to be more of an open, democratic sort of… and is there an argument that the character of the Net is shifting because of all this,, the levels of commercial involvement basically?
I: erm, well it used to be just something that we in universities would use, yeah
P: yeah
I: and the information that you would transfer would be raw information regarding erm research, yeah. So now it’s moved over into the commercial arena where it’s all money. It’s all money. I mean you get someone creating erm a website called freeserve and start selling it, you know. An excellent way of building up something to let it fall. I mean you can get someone to start putting all this money in this stuff and there’s no basis to it. Its gone you know. And so you can have a collapse, you know. It might not happen but I’d like it to happen because I just see it again as greed you know, parts of it as greed. It’s a good service, good thing to use, but it has these erm, I mean the thing about the Internet you can have god on there and you can have the devil on there. You know you can have the good and the bad.
P: right
I: It’s an open thing and it gives full access to that sort of thing. So I suppose I was arguing for controlling it. But I don’t think you can control it and I wouldn’t like to see it controlled.
P: right
I: though one has prejudices, you know like, you know paedophiles and  things like this.
P: yeah
I: yeah. Erm. Yeah
P: yeah. It’s tricky but is this, I mean you were saying you don’t think it can be controlled so is it an inevitability? In commercial areas there’ll be more and more trading on the Internet as time goes on?
I: There will be more trading I think. I don’t think it’s an inevitability, I don’t think it can be. I think it could be controlled but I don’t think that would be the way to do it. In controlling it you’ll lose the freedom of the Net. In controlling it you’ll start putting on erm, access rights. You can do this and that, you have to have a user name, and you have to sign up with your name and address and all that sort of stuff. And control it on that level. And you wouldn’t want to do that.
P: do you think there will be more and more commerce transacted on the Net?
I: I think it will be, eventually. Cos erm, if you have an idea for a business, yeah
P: yeah
I: erm, you want to do it as cheaply as possible with the least possible things that can go wrong. In in that all you need to do is buy a name somewhere and buy some Website, Webspace and here’s you software. Done.
P: that’s it
I: and most people can use a word-processor and all this sort of stuff so you can do it all on the Net, yeah. It comes down to the individual having an idea so its much more free. Where in the past you had to go out and rent an office space and all of that.
P: right
I: erm, so yeah, the Net itself can and should free up a lot of. Well the idea that came to mind just then was up in the North of England property’s going cheap, apparently it’s selling for 50p and that. Now these will be areas that you would move or you would develop some sort of Internet sites or business to lift the area up. I mean it’s all seated in London, lots of it, the money’s still here but it allows you to sort of run a business from anywhere. You know on the train, in a café, you can. Abroad I see people in cafes with their laptops doing business having a coffee. Excellent. Yeah. But it comes down to just being in the Know.  But that will grow
P you think that will spread anyway, people will become more knowledgeable?
I: yeah, yeah, erm if only because children themselves are into it and, you know, and from that point of view
P: in the longer term
I: in the longer term it’s bound to erm and all those who can’t hack it will, you know. It sounds bad but if you can’t get into it then either something else will be developed for you or you’ll be lost.
P: right
I: But on the whole,…. I mean I don’t want it to sound like if your not technology minded your going to be out of it, cos that isn’t what I’m sort of saying erm. I think itself, the Internet and electronics itself or computer arena will lift everybody up if used properly.
P: OK. So it has the potential for general benefit
I: yeah but it always comes down to people, you know in a controlling sort of erm, people holding the strings. Like the Net itself doesn’t have much control like that so hopefully, hopefully, erm everybody will get a look in everybody will be pulled up and there won’t be so many people pulling you back. I mean they’re trying to erm, control it, trying to find ways of working security codes and I mean the police want to be able to break any security codes for drugs and things like that
P: yeah right
I: but you can there’s so many ways round there, like nobody can break a code, you can build a code anyway you like. It’s just not done, well I don’t think anyway.
P: So you think it’s right that it’s going to be a space that you just can’t regulate or police
I: yeah. I think that end of it is right yeah. Simply because if you can police it you come down to people’s own prejudices. Or social prejudices or whatever. Something driven by the norm of the day. What’s the thing now, sort of thing, what shall we do now? You need something that’s free from all that. Yeah, In my opinion anyway.
P: ok…well, shall we look at a few sites? You know, e-commerce sites, see what we think? Let6’s see what I’ve got, see if I’ve got any bookmarks. What shall we start with?
I: well you can use some of that Alta Vista if you like search for something
P: or we could go into someone’s sites
I: Air UK? Could have Air UK but that’s just for flights
P: err, do you know Loot’s website? I: Loot? Loot.com yeah
P: let’s go into that, see what’s going on. There we go.
I: I have to go to this one most days actually.
P: oh right 
I: for a boat
P: really
I: oh I’m gonna buy a boat. So I’m using all these sites, Loot, and there’s another website
P: Really of you’ll have to show me that one. Have you looked at this auctions thing?
I: yeah, cos you can put in a bid and it comes over days cos they’ll say what the least bid is. I’ve not found anything useful on it actually. You’ll find your cars, toys..
P: oh look here’s a boat
I: oh I think 4 metres.
P: What’s that? I don’t know what kind of boat that is.
I: oh this is rescue, what is it? Well they’re the ones with the rubber outside and they’ve got hard decks on them.
P: Oh, I know. Here’s a cruiser, shall  we look at that one
I: ok. That will be a narrow boat
P: it’s 30 foot long. It’s like the sort of thing they have on the Broads.
I: erm this goes on the canals. A Norfolk Broads cruiser is a bit different.
P: oh is it? So this is, current bid £7000, reserve 6500
I: Yeah but it’s only 30 foot you see. 
P: oh, you want a longer one. Oh there it is
I: oh right so it’s a cruiser.
P: It’s in Hertfordshire.
I: I might actually put a bid in for that.
P: where would you keep your boat?
I: oh I’d keep it on the canal.
P: yeah.
I: but then the reason to get a boat would be to take it across to France and places, so that’s 
P: you can get across the channel in those sorts of things on a fine day can’t you?
I: yeah. You can’t do it on a narrow boat. I mean people people do take narrow boats.
P: do they? Across the channel?
I: oh yeah. They tie them together.
P: oh right
I: to get the width you see.
P: right. I was going to say one on its own would be mad wouldn’t it? Well it’s quite good that one isn’t it?
I: oh yeah, I might go for that one actually.
P: There’s a fishing boat.
I: No, cos I’m looking at something well 32 foot is like the minimum. Like I’ve been looking at life boats.
P: this is another cabin cruiser, that’s all they’ve got. What’s this
I: I don’t know what this is
P: shall we try it out?
I: oh yeah. You see I get the horoscope of it as well that’s the other terrible thing that I do.
P: so this is an email service to keep you posted about developments. That’s interesting.
I: yeah, there’s quite a few things you can do on there. What was, I think Hotmail was another one
P: yeah right.
I: So you can use it and you can pick them out
P: so this mixture of information and buying I suppose is what the Web is all about? Bookshop
I: loads of bookshops now
P: There are. This is Smiths.
I: They started out quite cheap.
P: do they do music as well?
I: yeah. Some you tend to avoid. You look at ones that you see as hanging on the back end of it and I tend to avoid them
P: why’s that?
I: well I think their just getting on the back end of something just to make the money.
P: So you like sites that have been around a while
I: I think so.
P: ABBA gold.  So what do you think of this site
I: I suppose it’s ok.
P: It’s got reviews of the albums
I: you want a bit more of a search then you can put in under classical or rock, drum and bass or whatever
P: yeah, have you seen CDNow site?
I: no
P: I agree that’s very… I’ll show you CDNow. Right here we are
I: oh right so you buy your CDs here
P: yeah. They’ve got a sale of stuff on there but you’ve got different categories on here. Rock, R&B, pop, Hip Hop, Jazz. oh, so we can look for, what do you want to look for?
I: electronic dance I suppose
P: where’s that?
I: or blues
P: there’s blues
I: and there’s Jazz up there.
P: Jazz. Let’s try that. Taking a while isn’t it?
I: yeah. But for music you’ll tend to just go into the shop.
P: do you think so?
I: oh yeah.
P: you don’t see yourself using this?
I: for music now you can just get an MP3 player. You can just download your music. Yeah because lots of music now in this MP3 format
P: right
I: so most of the, well not most, but a lot of the rock stars are, um, producing their own music and selling it on the Web you see. yeah George Michael and people like that
P: Oh right, so they can sell it directly to you
I: yeah
P: that’s interesting
I: and from that you can make your own CD or like store it
P: how do you think that might affect the music industry?
I: well the music industry they’ll have to erm, god, they’ll have to start changing their act in some way erm, get new talent, and some how hold on to the old talent. So they’ll change the management, they’ll change how they interact with the musicians. The fees themselves will be much reduced because if someone can set up their own website or put stuff on the net for a couple of hundred and they take ten percent of the profits, they’ll have to start thinking that one through,
P: yeah
I: so I mean, it comes down to money again doesn’t it? Well, they tried to outlaw it didn’t they? They tried to outlaw publishing music on the Net. I remember there was something in the news
P: right
I: erm, I remember even BT when they were having all these sites, these Internet sites and, what was it, there was some dispute that BT had anyway. Oh might be with Cable or something. Initially they said no you can’t do this and we’ll bring the law on you. It was either creating a new site or creating a new server or something. But they’ve turned around and they’ve got on the band wagon now you see. So all of these companies who go against these things will find they can’t buck it, you know and they’ll have to start towing the line and doing their own thing. So, its erm, it does bring people up erm, really, erm, if you can’t cope with new technology then you have to learn
P: right
I: to bring yourself up.
P: right
I: to the standard, to a level. In which you can compete, otherwise you get, you know, and that is the way really, I mean for me really. Another thing that I have to search for, there are free courses on the Net now for, well you can find them for everything. Like for me I find new courses on say new programming languages or networks or something so I can keep my own self up you see
P: uhum
I: and it is all that sort of stuff, I mean taking care of yourself
P: right
I: yeah. What about customers who don’t have any IT background or training?
P: right, it is a difficult one. There need to be places that they can go and be taught the rudiments. I mean there are people who are afraid of a computer. There needs to be some way of getting them into that. A friend of mine was doing this for a while, he set up an office where they bring in people, teach them how to get onto the web, how to do searches and all of this
P:  right
I: so what he was saying to me was erm, was that people come in and initially, they’d be learning to use the stuff a few people come in with their beer and stuff and mess the place up and that. So that wasn’t very good but then they ended up closing down this office.
P: but generally I don’t think there’s a lot of that going on.
I: yeah, that itself will have to pick up because I don’t know how many people are on the Net, the last I heard was about 40%. And that has to go up
P: right
I: but people have erm, computers in their home,
P: yeah
I and it’s still costing the ‘phone
P: yeah
I: There needs to be a way round that. And there needs to be a way of getting people in, they’ll have to
P: getting them on line. I think that’s right. Computers are still, their coming down in price but they’re still relatively expensive
I: that’s it. Erm, to build a computer you have to get all the chips and all the electronics to do the same you have to buy all those chips again. So that costs money. Software, you write the code, you’ve done it once, you copy it, you don’t have to pay that cost again, yeah. There’s a serious rip off going on with people like Microsoft and people like this erm. Now you’ve got Linnux which is a newish like operating system and they more or less give this away free. One of the ways of getting people into using things is to give them something like this and then get them using some other software that has the support for it.
P: right
I: you know, there are ways of getting people in and getting tied into it
P: right
I: Microsoft are good at doing that you know
P: yeah
I: I mean they really, to my way Microsoft are crooks really cos like with NT they have Internet Explorer which is built into the operating system
P: yeah
I: which is just so bad, god. Systems need to be open you’ve got to give people the choice to do things themselves. But that’s how you make money or that’s how they think they can make money. Either people accept it and take it or
P: well, they don’t always know about the alternatives do they
I: that’s it, that’s it, it’s a new technology. But hopefully once they’ve learned they’ll want something different but then it may be too late.
P: you were talking about shares,,, ah here we go
I: now this is one of those, see that’s a name that someone has registered and then sold on. You know like creating the name sainsbury’s.com and then going to Sainsbury’s and saying do you want to buy this name
I: a friend of mine he trades on the Net. He makes his money doing it.
P: the Motley Fool, that’s it – what do you think of this one?
I: I think this is a good one. I mean I don’t know much about shares so I started to go on this. Have a little read around and stuff.
P: quick tour. So they’re saying there’s power to the people
I: see Amazon’s a book seller and they sell books erm, I think they’re from America and that’s the thing and this is why I won’t go to WH Smiths. You can buy a book, Amazon will have a book  and you can buy it in the UK for say £20 but you can go to the US site and buy it for $20 and get them to mail it
P: That’s right
I: I mean it’s things like that yeah. And you know about the cars, you know, in Europe you can go to Europe and buy a car for 40-50% less than you can over here.
P: yeah
I: It’s all of that sort of stuff
P: yeah, right so access to other markets
I: yeah. And it means those businesses I mean they’re still trying to sell you this idea of, oh the great British public are getting good value buying their car or whatever, I mean to my mind it’s still rubbish. Erm, but they’ll change their tune. They’ll have to change their tune if ..
P: do you think that this will bring more competition
I: oh yeah, yeah. They can’t, initially they’ll rebel against it, everything, everybody I think rebels against change to begin with, but its just simple economics, they’re just going to have to stop moaning and get on with it really. And find ways to increase their market and to compete, yeah. Oh yeah. This is a site worth looking at anyway. If you have the time and mean that’s the other thing with this, I mean, you just spend hours
P: right
I: so it’s worthwhile even putting down a few points of what you want.
P: so this is quite good
I: it is isn’t it?
P: it gives you lots of information about shares and how to buy them, what to think about them. 
I: that’s the thing, you don’t need to know anything all you need to do is get onto the Web
P: yeah
I: and you can learn as you go
P: mmm
I: yeah
P: so do you think that will bring people into buying stocks and shares. I mean it sounds like you’ve seen it but you think of it almost like an interest, an entertainment site. You’re not actually buying shares on it. 
I: at the moment but I hope to be doing it. I hope to learn enough to have an idea of what goes on myself. Because at the moment it’s still an arcane sort of thing. You know, it’s like the car, you know, the mechanic knows it all but if your just driving it you know. All of this allows you to, if you want to that’s the thing, if you want to find out about this thing it is there. If you want to find out about the Net or you want to find out, I don’t know anything, cars say. You know you can do it,,
P: do you think people will use it primarily as an information resource or for buying
I: Initially it will be used as an information thing. Once they’re comfortable with the thing they’ll move on. One way and another they may not want to use it for that. But, you know, initially it is information
P: right
I: and from that they’ll be passing it on because you’ll find people that know what sites to use on the Internet they’ll go and show somebody else. Well these are the sites that I know you can use for shares and that way show other people
P: uhum
I: yeah, so passing on information like that erm. Information is the money in the end. I’m told anyway. Sounds like money is the thing but it isn’t.  I think that’s what drives a lot of this
P: right
I: I think money is at the back of a lot of this. It didn’t used to be. It used to be a thing of if you had some research or you’d done some ship or you’d give out some formulas or polynomial function
P: right
I: You’d put it on the Net for somebody else 
P: yes
I: It used to be a way of getting information around and it still is that. It still will grow like that. I remember there was this thing of having erm, expert systems around
P: yeah right
I: you know, you’d have a doctor in California or wherever erm, looking at how you do the operation in X hospital there.
P: uhum
I: That itself, just for a time is bound to occur. That’s just a technological thing. Erm you know, managing a robot from here, I mean you can manage robots on the moon from here. 
P: yeah right
I: you know so its not too difficult to manage a robot from here, this room, that operates a drill over in the North sea or you might have an oil well over in California there, you know, you can… It does open up that sort of stuff
P: what about people’s sort of everyday lives just in terms of say shopping. Looking to the future, how do you see that being affected
I: well yeah. You can shop on the Net. I mean Tesco’s has a site and I mean some of the other companies will have sites. For those that want it it will be there but I still believe in using your legs.
P: right
I: you know, which is the thing. There’ll be so much stuff that you can do and you yourself will have to start choosing. And I firmly believe in using your own mind for what you can do, yeah. And I’m using that all the time but I still use my head for doing my maths and leave my calculator alone
P: right
I: whereas there are the people, the younger people I suppose, that will come up will start using the Net for their shopping. So I suppose, with that sort of thinking, taking that sort of thinking on board there may be a push towards people shopping on the Net, staying at home, not going out of their front door for days, weeks on end. You know because they can buy their food on the Net, they can put their letters on the Net, they can do their communication, they can work on the Net
P: right
I: So there wouldn’t be a reason for going out their front door, I suppose that could happen in the future. I mean that’s one scenario. Yeah, that is one of the possible down sides of technology. Not necessarily of the Internet but just technology. You’ve seen those doorbells? You ring a door bell and it plays a tune? You know. Some people like that but my auntie, I just go round there and knock on the door cos I just can’t stand that. Erm, and 
P: so why not? So you think there are limits on the areas we should use technology? Even though it’s going to develop and it’s going to be there.
I: well see I think there’s limits. I mean that’s my own prejudice that comes in there cos I think you should use your mind. I mean I suppose it comes from when I go round the supermarket, do my stuff. I tend to just rack it up in my head. How much it will be
P: right
I: and when you go to the till. I mean there was some instance when I went to the till and the woman couldn’t work something out or something and she was relying on her till to tell her the right thing whereas I knew that was wrong. Relying on technology. So you can rely upon technology. Erm, Or at least now within these ten years I suppose
P: right and increasingly in the future
I: yeah. And less upon yourself.
P: right
I: and that’s a problem that comes up, it’s going through teething problems but erm, it’s quite bad because that’s what I pick up on and that’s what people tend to pick up on where you tend to see people using technology or something without using their own mind or skill. Erm
P: and what are the dangers in that, it sounds like you feel
I: dangers? Well you can lock somebody up can’t you? I mean you’re a paedophile because your genetic code says that you’re a paedophile and it was somebody else who spelt their name wrong
P: right
I: or something, I mean that’s sort of quite an outlandish sort of thing but, in reality what happens now I think say Sainsbury’s or Tesco a while ago they had this offer this thing erm you get offers at the check out. You buy so many items and at the check out they would say ‘Oh you got three items right you get one free sir’. But it didn’t actually work. Some of the tills in the country didn’t actually have go on
P: right
I: so there are these little things which I think really come down to people anyway.  Erm, by not giving people the benefit at the check out till, if you’re buying goods say, erm, then you could save money there. The ultimate problem with it is when people don’t use their own erm, they can’t test things in their own head, yeah
P: right
I: erm, it’s like the millennium bug, where did that come from? A computer had written on some box that the sell buy date was the sixth of August 00. That date’s gone erm, it’s a similar thing but it’s still going on, yeah?. The computer says that you have, on the till, says that your bill is a hundred and odd pounds. That actually happened to me. Yeah it actually happened to me, I gave my switch card and it came out as, she’d actually typed things in wrongly. It was a hundred a hundred and something pounds as opposed to ten pounds something. So we had to scrub the thing out. The checking, the error checking, was me and the actual woman.
P: right
I: but if I’d been actually sleepy and she’d been sleepy, I’d have signed the bill
P: yeah
I: yeah
P: yeah
I: and things like that. I mean that’s just one incident that’s happened to me, it’s going to happen again I’m afraid, 
P: sure
I: but the thing is, erm, people will just accept it. People who don’t know, or they don’t look at their bill or things like this, I mean lots of times I check my bill and I’m a pound or so out,
P: right
I: and I think yeah, perhaps that’s right, you know, but I think there must be times when perhaps I’m not
P: yeah, yeah
I: you know, so
P: that’s interesting because as you say, in those examples, you can think what the price is and work it out. But I suppose in electronic commerce, a lot of the software that’s being developed now, agent software, negotiation. Have you heard about his stuff? So you won’t actually do the shop yourself you’ll have an
I: an agent going out there doing it for you., yeah.
P: I mean when you’re talking about dependency,,
I: Jesus Christ yeah.  Yeah well with agents, hopefully they’ll build in these various checks and limits if it goes outside these areas check again, say
P: right:
I: erm, or come back to me and I’ll check. I mean that sort of thing will have to be implemented within these software agents.
P: yeah
I: cos that’s what they’ll have they’ll have some little programmes that will trawl through the Internet looking for shares say
P: right
I: within this region. Erm and these dates, come back and tell me where they are, initially.
P: right
I: but later on you want them to buy and sell for you
P: right
I: because then that will be a lot quicker
P: right, you don’t want them to come back to you, you might be asleep, you might not go online for a couple of hours, you want them to have the power to do the transaction themselves.
I: Initially. I mean they’ll test these out in a secure, sort of safe environment,
P: yeah
I: try and iron out the bugs, you know. But,,, it’s, it’s a human thing that does fail, computers tend not to fail. Yeah, it’s always gonna be the person that’s either coding it or using the information
P: right
I: and that’s the problem. You know, the check out till, the person that you’re interacting with
P: yeah
I: In the end. It’s incredible
P: ok. Thanks a lot. That’s great
I: yeah

Ut41

Ut41 single woman, 18-35 Hi IT

Pete:	Alright we’re talking to people about (…), but we’re starting with asking people what kind of experience they’ve had with computers, basically, so do you want to start with that?

R:	OK, computers right from the very first time?

Pete:	Yea.

R:	I’ve probably used computers for about eight or nine years at least and before that would have known about them but not had any purpose for using them.  Definitely used it as a word processor first of all and not for games.  I was never that interested in games; it’s just boring boy’s stuff as far as I was concerned.

Pete:	You weren’t tempted to try?

R:	I just didn’t think it was a very fun way of passing the time and also I say my age, I’m 26 so when I was at the age I might have been interested in games they weren’t that sophisticated.  It was probably more fun to make them than to play them.  I taught myself word processing as I had to hand an A-Level paper in or something.  At university I hand wrote all my essays so I didn’t use computers much then except towards the end and again not to do anything much else other than word process.  But I had always been very much into design and a year into working I took some time out and taught myself Photo Shop and some illustration and desk top publishing and forgot most of that and hung on to Photo Shop.  Then my experience in the last five years has been has been much more in design and I got introduced to the Internet.  I knew about it about 18 months before I actually went on line.  I went on line about the beginning of ‘96, which is quite late as an earlier (…).  I’ve been using e-mail and using the Internet longer than most people in this country who I kind of know of but I was introduced to it by people in the states when I was on holiday.  I knew it was a really good way of combining design and information.

Pete:	Right.

R:	When people discouraged me from going off to do design when I was 18 it didn’t exist and had it existed I might have taken a different path.

Pete:	Right.

R:	So now I use computers all the time.  Probably the thing I do most other than sleep is sit in front of the keyboard, which is quite grim.  I’m doing a Masters in computer related design so I’m at the high end of your (…) steeped in computing kind of sample.

Pete:	Yes.  So are you doing that as a part-time Masters?

R:	No I’m doing it as a full-time Masters.  That means I’m using all sorts of multi media programmes and I’ve always preferred Macs to PCs but I’m happy on both it doesn’t bother me.  But I still consider the design side of it more interesting than the coding side of it, though I’ve done a little bit of HCML programming and post typing directories.  I guess I’m going towards the technology side of it because I have to for my course and the way my career is going I suppose.  I’m still only interested in the technical side only for the potential it has for the content.

Pete:	Right, right.  What about your course is that mainly technically orientated?

R:	No it’s an art and design school so it sort of prides itself on having people who are very sort of technically competent in it, I don’t necessarily include myself in that.  I come from a content side; I’ve done on line work and stuff.  There’s a sort of level of expertise in sound engineering and coding and programming and in electronics, but it’s across the whole group.  It’s not necessarily one or two people have that and one or two people have expertise in other fields.

Pete:	That’s an interesting mix, I mean one of the issues that the Net has brought up is that in some ways it’s brought design more to the fore.

R:	Yea, I think from within design, designers would say that design has always been at the fore but it’s some how ligitermised it in the eyes of people who thought that design was a sort of bolt on thing and now user interaction isn’t about putting lipstick on pigs, it isn’t about making ugly things pretty; it isn’t about that, it’s also about that but it’s also about the fact you make decisions.  There’s a statergy to decide to make something in a certain way, not just for ergonomics but for the pleasure of using your brain as well.

Pete:	Yea. That’s sort of on the aesthetic side, the visualisation side, the other aspects to designers as well.

R:	Yea, and the enthesis is on as much as well making the thing a delight to use but also making it useable as well.  Which is just as much a design thing as choosing what colour an eye is going to be.

Pete:	Yes, I mean that is the way that design is prominent in a sense through a visual and aesthetic aspects but in relation to e-commerce that’s still.

R:	That’s still very (…).

Pete:	Yea.

R:	That’s funny actually, I’ll be honest, e-commerce is the thing that interests me least about the net.  My interest in the net, I was fascinated at the potential of people seeing your portfolios from 3000 miles away and building communities and building networks and maintaining contact over distance and then I managed to be in the industry by producing sites which were very informational or news orientated so I worked on the e-commerce side, I’ll come to that; I also worked on the news sites or I wrote content which was then stripped down to the bare minimum which was to go on line for the election website or news magazines that got turned up electronically.  I was looking around for work to do in the states, which I’m still thinking of doing.  Although when I had done a year of my programming and come back to look for jobs again I realised the number of kind of boutique, the kind off little web outfits that had started as incredibly good coders who had sort of been sitting in back rooms for ages and fantastically innovated designers had all been taken over and been consolidated into huge corporate outfits.  Who were basically maintaining corporate websites for upping sales or marketing?  I decided I definitely wasn’t interested in becoming an electronic marketer, it hadn’t been my initial attraction to the medium in the first place.  That’s why the course I’m doing will probably take me; probably use IP technology but use it in a different way.  I’ve just been working for a mobile phone company so I sort of see the potentials of the net in a different direction.  I do sort of see the point of having it as a commercial enterprise as well otherwise it’s just going to remain a quirky little thing for fanatics.

Pete:	Well yea.  There was some anticipation that some of the positive things about that quirkiness, some of the things you mentioned about it’s sponsinaty and community notions.  There was some optimism originally that would some how transfer over into consumption.  It seems to me that you’re suggesting that that’s not intirely the case that there’s a bit of a divergence there.  E-commerce services are of a particular kind maybe or nature.

R:	Well I’m not so averse, not so fearful of the selling out kind of idea.  I don’t think the net sells out, there’ll always be kooky, weird things out there that entertain and amuse and there will always be things, sites that try to effect social change for the good or whatever.  Along side any sort of round ware, there’s a commercial side to it and there’s a fringe side to it.  I think that anyone who thought the kind of hippy, West Coast ideals were going to translate into big business were a bit naive actually.  I think it’s fair enough that people want to make it efficient in a way for their own pocket margins.  The point, if doesn’t work and users are frustrated and they’re regular customers and they think well why should I bother using the net, it’s easier to phone.  Then that’s the point were attention needs to be paid.  It doesn’t matter if it’s made in the shed somewhere by one guy or if it’s made with a team of information artists.  I worked for a group of about four people who had a big retail account and the kind of disparity between their attitude and how they got into the web business is quite (…).  They were originally producing like zeens on line which is how I kind of got into it.  In fact the way I met them was a friend of mine in the states had met one of them in a chat room, made friends with him on line, told me to ring him up in London and I met him before he’d met his friend in the States.  It was a perfect kind of e-mail, kind of net, kind of enterprise right from the beginning and it’s been a kind of cute story ever since.  They’re quite fearful of getting kind of big and letting the big boy’s kind of roller coaster them into turning into a kind of corporate outfit.  They want to maintain their kind of editorial integrity and their artistic integrity.  It’s a year and a half, two years ago since I finished there, I know they were kind of low key, but I know lots of people who started like that have become huge, successful corporations from it.

Pete:	Yes.  

R:	So I guess I’m more interested in the industry than in the output but whenever I see there site or I see the address on shopping bags I think that is amazing because little does anyone know that it’s like five people and the in-house creative team working on this, so it’s the scales of things.

Pete:	I think that’s right, and that’s one of the interesting phenomena that somehow, the visibility of the concern that makes a company or not.  It’s very much in the background from it’s point of view that it’s impact it’s not like a traditional firm where you’ve got to have physical space and you’ve got to be a certain size to make a certain kind of impact.  I suppose that was one of the sort of grounds for optimism in a sense about e-commerce; It wasn’t I think it wasn’t entially naivety, it was that would be a new way of doing business that wouldn’t be so grounded in kits and so on, so it’s a nice story.  

	What about from the users point of view, why don’t you give me a perspective from how the user is thought about through this sort of process because you’ve had industry experience, what’s the talk about the user like?

R:	Well the first thing anyone would say is if it takes more than 30 seconds to download, people are like bored and will not stick around.  So there’s always talk about maximising and compressing everything and trade-offs about how many bells and whistles the site’s got and how functional it is.  Also people are not going to be sold on gimmicks if the thing doesn’t work the way they expect it to.  How they expect it to if they’ve never used a website before, I don’t know; but there’s a sort of certain level at which you can now afford to make assumptions about not just earlier doctors or geeks knowing how to browse but things like free serve and things like entry level sites that get people confidant using the stuff means that more sophisticated graphics and animation and all sorts of (..) that people can use can be put into popular sites because there’s an assumption that they’ll know they’re supposed to interact with this thing and not that it’s like reading a catalogue.  They understand that underline or highlight means that (..) the text or arrows will take you a certain way and they’re confidant about getting back out of things or getting lost.  The navigation is like everybody’s bread and butter, it’s like how on earth are you going to get anything out of a home page if you don’t understand the kind of concept of things going to different levels.

Pete:	Sure. 

R:	But as a user, I don’t know, it’s hard to separate how I judge an experience of a site I need to get something from and how critical I am as a person who’s very sensitive to the design of it.  I’m thinking, god how do they do that all of the time or that’s so bad, drop shallow errrh, that looks terrible.  Or they got those buttons off a dreadful clip art sight or something.  On the other hand I’m still quite in awe of it, because I feel that I’ve stopped pursuing the web design and stuff at a certain level and I know there’s a whole load of other things can be done and I’ve just got other concerns other than becoming expert in that.  So I sort of think if it’s clean and you can read it and it thinks like I do about wanting to get somewhere and access something, then fine.  I think having to submit all your personal details, inside leg and everything just so you can be spanned with junk all the time is kind of irritating but I’ve noticed people just put double dutch in most of the fields then send just to get rid of that.  Probably the best thing is to surf about and just talk about it.

Pete:	Yes, we’ll do that in a sec.  That’s interesting, because there’s a sense in which you’re putting the focus on a certain kind of usability, particularly focus maybe on information and transaction. Is that what.

R:	Yea I think so.  I actually had a look at the bookmarks I had on my machine at home.  I still don’t consider myself a heavy user except that I have access to the net all the time and it a resource I use.  When I look through apart from stuff that was academic journals or research stuff for work I was doing; it’s certainly really useful for finding about about technology because the medium invites the rest of the community to contribute.  Apart from that use of it I think most of it is information on like I’ve got a whole kind of stash of stuff that’s about London like Time Out, this is London, Scooped.  Anything that if I’m sitting in a studio and I haven’t got access to Yellow Pages and I don’t want to spend 50p ringing directories, I’ll use the net.  I think ever since I was a kid and I had homework to do, I used to think we have got so many books in our house why isn’t there a book on whatever I want to know about and the net kind of does that for you.  Like somewhere out there, there is something on whatever it is you’re after.  So I think the information side of it is definitely my main use of it.  Then there’s a whole, I’m constantly sent URLs to look at by people who’ve worked on stuff or friends of mine’s sites, or I’m mentioned in this article have a look here.  I’ve one friend who constantly sends me, he’s always sending me addresses of articles that have appeared, he’s from the states, he’s constantly sending articles that have appeared in the Evening Standard two days before that I’ve either read or I’m not interested in.  It’s his kind of expression that he’s in London so it’s like why are you telling me this.  I think for him it’s probably a way of closing the gap and being in several places at once.  I don’t usually buy stuff on line.  I’ve tended to look stuff up and then call up.  The only thing, I’ve bought flights, but only after I’ve called them and seen they’ve got a data base of stuff, that’s great, it saves me hanging on the phone a long time.  I’ve bought an e-mail address on line, which is kind of an umbrella address which directs my mail through this to wherever I am.  But again I look up their postal address; I’ve never put my debit card details on the net.

Pete:	You’ve not done that?

R:	No.  I think it’s a trust thing.  Apart from that I thin I know a bit too much, I’m a bit too cynical about the kind of branding things that go with the sites.  Just for the sake of going oh look this brand of chocolate has got a whole game on their site and I must go and play it; I can’t be doing with it, it’s silly.  Unless it’s kind of to nick graphics off there or look at the structure.

Pete:	I must say we haven’t met many people who browse through e-commerce sites.

R:	No, why would you?

Pete:	Except for us of course, because we’re researching it.

R:	Yea.  I think I’ve got a weird approach to looking at the net from that point of view.  There’s something else you’re getting out of it other than the intended purpose, which is to sell stuff.

Pete:	All right, shall we look at some sites and get your views about them?

R:	Yea.  

Pete:	Which sort of sites have you visited and do you know about as it were in e-commerce?

R:	Amazons is probably one I use quite a lot.  The clothes stores I worked on that I know about.  I worked on some British Telecom. Sites, selling services.  I probably shouldn’t commit my views about some of these to tape.

Pete:	No.

R:	A BBC site, I look at quite a lot, although I hardly ever watch telly.

Pete:	But you check out the site?

R:	Yea sometimes, instead of going to look at the paper to read the listings or something, I go there.  Or if I’ve missed something on the radio they sometimes have transcripts of things.  

Pete:	Right.

R:	It’s usually quite a useable site.  What else?  Time Out guides, cinema listings, places to eat kind of things as well.  

Pete:	Yea, again it’s general, almost like a magazine, lifestyle type approach to the net.

R:	Yea, and then if I want to buy something big, that I don’t want to subscribe to a magazine to find out more about, I look up.  Yea, I guess I use the net more than I would buy magazines.  I don’t buy women’s magazines except if I’m going on a long journey.  If I buy magazines it’s because they’re produced, they’re like the thing you want to have, like a book almost.  Like if you buy a CD instead of taping them all, it’s something nice to have ‘cos it’s the limited edition of something.

Pete:	Right, OK lets use this one.  

R:	I just resent Microsoft chucking stuff at me without letting me decide.  The ruler is thinner and the type is nicer.

Pete:	That’s true.  That’s interesting because some of the views you are expressing are there sort of industry views.  What’s your sense of the public’s reaction?  In one sense what we’re talking about with e-commerce is a lot of people coming on line for the first time and not using it through the culture that you’ve been talking about it, much more pragmatically maybe.  Aren’t there expectations going to be rather different and what they want from it?

R:	Yea.  If I compare myself to both my parents who are senior doctors.  They didn’t understand why a PC which was short for a personal computer was different from a Mac, what’s a Mac isn’t that a personal computer too.  They’re not even confident enough to use the vocabulary of which browser or which software or how do you open this application and things that are definitely unfamiliar at some point.  You have to sort of understand the whole machine or the conversation or expect to understand the answer before you can formulate the question of what the issue is.  So as far as e-commerce is concerned I wouldn’t be at all surprised if people were completely unaware of what the browser was or what the issue was.  Everyone has got Windows, Windows is what we have in our office, I’ve never even seen a Mac.  Ooh they look nice I’ve played on them, they look much nicer, they’re much easier to use but I don’t half get confused. I’ve temped for a while and people are always like can you use a Mac? And I’m like yea of course I can use a Mac, it’s much easier, and they’re like Oh great because they’ve got Macs there and some people can’t use them.  I think well fine, I’m sure if I’d only ever used a word processor, I’d also think oh this is a different thing, but I wouldn’t appreciate this works on a different operating system, it doesn’t use a Pentium, the construction of the circuit board inside is completely different.  I wouldn’t care, the same way I get in a car, I’d have no idea which multi national has bought which multi national out to combine on the robotic engineering.  You just get in and you want to drive.  I’m aware of that.  I’m quite self conscious that a lot of people’s articulations about those kind of issues is to accrete their own kind of prowess or knowledge about the field and I’m one of them.

Pete:	Yea sure but there’s a newer generation, the more recent doctors maybe coming to it with Internet ready packages.  These are choices they don’t have to make and over time one builds up an understanding and knowledge of the issues.

R:	It also means that people are less critical because it’s given to them and because it doesn’t involve making choices so you bought the whole thing together and it’s given to in a bundle you’re not even aware that you could have made a choice about whether you wanted Netscape or IE or whatever.  So in that sense to what extent does the consumer make the decision?  And if they were still able to make a decision, how honest would that decision really be anyway.  It’s like do you want it in red, black or white.  Does it really matter if they have a choice?

Pete:	Yes the choice is quite constrain when you’re talking about browsers, but I’m talking perhaps more in the future but when people use e-commerce and whether the same issues apply in relation to understanding the services of e-commerce, and their choice over products and so on

R:	There’s probably the same shift in e-commerce as in retailing in real time and space and in other kinds of technology in there.  It’s no longer about, you go to a site or you buy something on line just because you can.  Companies are beyond the stage of we’ll just sell stuff on line because we can or more to the point because are competitors are already doing that and if we don’t then we’re going to be behind even though we don’t really know what the point of it is.  Or our competitors don’t really know the point of it is but they’re up there too and ought to be there with them.  It’s got to the stage were they really do have to pay attention to the quality of what they are putting up there because people really are going to look at it and the service they deliver there is as important as any other kind of service that they put out.

Pete:	Sure, sure.

R:	If they sell be mail order a lot of their presence in a certain part of the market is steered towards that and they can’t afford not to have something reliable or integrated with the rest of their operation.

Pete:	Yea, that’s interesting.  It’s interesting when we talk to users as well from their point of view.  I mean you’re coming up with this from the point of thinking of e-commerce as something that is a development on the Net, something that is already out there.

R:	Yea.

Pete:	But a lot of newer users are coming at it the other way, their primary way of getting an encounter with it is through things that are pretty highly commercial.  Either at the end that is software or because they’re using e-commerce services as one of the main things that they’re beginning to do on it.  I mean that what tends to happen there is that they don’t see the decisions in the same context of choice and this whole net culture thing that we were talking about earlier just doesn’t arrive for them.

R:	In the same way that you’d, I’m trying to think of a similar thing.  I don’t know I think I’m probably sensitised the medium more than the reason to go and use something.  I think I’m always like that, if you made a decision to buy a mobile phone or a digital organiser or something you’ve usually got a purpose for it unless you’re a kind of gadget sucker and you just want to buy the thing and have it and be the first one out there.  So are you asking something about coming from that point of view where the purpose leads you to the technology rather than the other way round?

Pete:	Yea, that’s partly it, and it’s partly what you said about being critical and the basis of being critical.  I suppose what I’m trying to get at is, is it important that they don’t have the background knowledge of software, the Internet, how it developed?

R:	If you’re asking me about my opinion I do think it’s important that they do have some awareness, but I think it would be great if people were interested enough to have a kind of critical view of most of the stuff that’s thrown at them in a commercial environment whatever medium it is.  But I assume that most advertising, most marketing most of the things that keep the economy going round are based on the fact that even if you are critically aware you still buy into it and that’s an acceptable level of deceit.  I don’t think anyone who is in the business of promoting e-commerce, whether it is putting their own site up or putting e-commerce ahead other kinds of commerce.  I don’t think they should expect users to that, I think the whole point of technology is after the earlier doctors get over the kind of enthusiasm and after the corporations and the professionals buy technology for their staff without consulting their staff about what they actually want.  Then it becomes the consumer round and the technology should actually recede and the consumers should be able to get on with what they want to do and make choices about the technology like they would anything else.

Pete:	OK. But you’re fairly cynical about the possibility.  Basically there is a lot of hype around things like niche marketing, small companies being able to market very widely.  New companies developing very fast so they can (…) manopolies that are existing now.  Fantastic advantages for consumers because they would have such a wide range of choice that would increase competitiveness, these sort of arguments were not so long ago being touted as why one of the things why e-commerce was such a good thing.  I suppose what I’m saying is you’ve talked mainly about advertising and marketing, they’re the people getting their teeth into the web no doubt.  But there’s this other side of it which is almost like a purely economic argument which says actually here’s a tool here to create a more perfect market because more people can get information about products, they’re not constrained by time and place, it becomes a sort of frictional economy and therefore a super efficient economy.  Therefore produces an economy and therefore produces new advantages to the consumer.  Also it makes the consumer potentially more critical because they have access to a wider range of information.  Not just price information but information about products, alternative websites.

R:	I think all that is valid to a certain extent and also I would like to fall into that kind of camp.  First of all where is that kind of optimism coming from, it’s coming from the companies whose interest is in to promote e-commerce because, the rest you know.  Or because there’s a kind of technological determinism that the technology is going to be the cure-all for centuries of economists ponderings about how on earth do you get another market and I don’t think that why should a medium be the kind of cure all for a realm that exists beyond the computer screen.  I mean all the sort of difficulties of access to information and inequalities of the scale of the company or the ability to distribute goods efficiently or the reputation of the company based on how long standing they are or the trust they have with customers, their loyalty and so on.  All that exists in the real world off screen and off line and those things persist and if you’re going to get is emansipatary for all the little guys and the larger sector of the economy and small businesses then that’s great but you’re still going to get dodgy Ron on line with a grey background and flashing everything.  You’re not going to trust it in the same way as Marks and Spencer’s, which is a kind of hefty reliable British brand.  Something that is a household name still has gravitate that a small trader that you’ve picked off a search engine simply wouldn’t have and that’s not to do with the medium.

Pete:	Yea but what about the argument that that’s based in old styles of consumption.  Physical shops and physical forms of distribution those were important issues, whereas in a sense the point is to break through that.  In one sense you could read reputation as being a necessary condition for trading and market but you could also read it as being a greater source of efficiency in the market, because it stops them looking around for the best prices.

R:	Are we assuming that efficiency is the kind of be all and end all for the consumer?  I mean people might be prepared to go to the other side of London to get something not because the guy sells something that he can dispatch within 24 hours but because he’s the last person in London that sells the spoke item that this person is looking for.  I think what the consumer wants and the economist looking for efficiency wants aren’t necessarily the same thing.  Actually the idea of having as much choice as possible sometimes isn’t what the consumer wants at all, they just want to be presented with a few of the things they are after and make a decision within their budget and just get it out of the way.  That might not look efficient to someone who is trying to rationalise the market.

Pete:	Rational decision making compared to information.

R:	I don’t think consumers are rational particularly.

Pete:	I’m not going to argue with you about that.  What shall we look at?

R:	Amazon.

Pete:	Yea let’s start with that and we can move onto other things.  All right talk me through this site.

R:	In what way, in terms of how you use it.

Pete:	Yea in terms of how you think about it. 

R:	I don’t read most of this and I probably don’t even look along the navigation.  I think the one time I’ve come into this site not to search for a particular title was when someone sent me an e-card and I just went straight into that and I thought what are Amazon doing sending me e-cards.  I tend to open a browser and I take a book off a shelf and I keep my e-mail account open at the bottom of the screen all day while I’m doing other stuff (….).  Then I’ll pull out another browser rather than going back, it’s just easier.  From here I’ll just go into here which is a search field and then just put in a title.  I’m actually going to look for a book now.  So I’d probably get rid of this, can I get rid of this?

Pete:	You can do, we just put it on there when we’re demonstrating the sites.

R:	It depends where I am, I’ve had access at the studio or if I’ve been working on a job and I’ve had on line access.  I actually find Amazon incredibly efficient.  It definitely doesn’t replace bookshops there’s something nice about browsing and falling upon stuff.  In the same way that I still like to be able to go to a supermarket and let things occur to me, rather than feel like I’ve entered my shopping list for the month and it gets delivered to my door because I’ve made a limited choice about it.  It’s only as rich as your impute in a way.

Pete:	There’s some attempt to go beyond that, the use of (…..) which analyses you’re past choices and makes suggestions to you and stuff like that.

R:	That actually really irritates me.  I think it’s the thing, it’s like I’m on line and don’t try and don’t try and anticipate that I’m trying to get as close as possible to real life experience.  I know what the limitations are of doing it and maybe I’ve chosen to go on line rather than having all those choices.  So, it depends what it is, something like this when I’ve put in a theme rather than a particular book I’m grateful that Amazon aggregate the data that other people contribute because the more people that use it the knowledge accumulates and that seems a really perfect use of the technology.  The aggregation of information that you couldn’t have in any other realm.

Pete:	Right but you’re drawing a distinction between that and the analysis of your personal profile as it were, is that what you’re saying?  You’re happy for them to sort of aggregate data and say well look there’s this sort of thing going on and have you thought about this kind of book or whatever?

R:	I’m happy if people have made an active decision to contribute something because they’ve been asked whether they want to and they’ve chosen to because they know they’ll be beneficiary to someone else contribution as well, it’s kind of participatory co-operation.

Pete:	Like a receptacle?

R:	Yea.

Pete:	but you’d prefer that to be under your control?

R:	Do you mean the access to that kind of information?

Pete:	Yea.

R:	Yea I’d like to be able to choose whether I have to wade through everybody else’s critic of a book or something.  But if I just want to buy the thing and that’s what I want then fine, but if I’m thinking what other things that I might not have come across from somebody telling me about this one book that also might be interesting and might take me off on another path, I’d like to know that it’s there.  There’s information everywhere, like I don’t need to know the dimensions of the book, I don’t really need to know how far down sales (…) is but sometimes that kind of information is quite funny, like only 11,000 left, nobody’s ever bought this and it’s really big, why do I need to know that?  I tend to go into a site, get what I want and come out and not kind of surf about.  In the same way if I went into orders or something I’d go in and buy a book because it’s a bookshop and if I wanted to buy a record I’d go into a record store.  I wouldn’t go to Tescos to buy CDs.

Pete:	That’s interesting, what you’re saying is an interesting mixture.  On one hand you’re sort of valuing these as a new kind of service and new way of doing consumption.  On the other hand you’re still kind of fairly wedded to traditional forms of consumption, you like your bookshops to be bookshops, you like your record shops to be record shops.

R:	Yea.

Pete:	Again that cuts against the grain doesn’t it?  The Net culture that you’re also quite happy to be apart of in your more professional life.

R:	I don’t think that blurring the kind of boundaries necessarily defines Net culture as new and emancipator.  I think what I’m getting away from in both real consumption and on line consumption, not that it’s any less real, is this kind of homogenisation of everything.  It doesn’t matter where you go, you just say I want this and I make no decisions about where I get it from because everything is available everywhere.  The atmosphere in places is powerfully different.  If you’re not buying essential items and you’re buying things based on your mood and you seek to go and buy trash metal in the downstairs bit of a grungy store because that’s the mood you’re in and you’d go and buy aromatheropy oils in Neil Street or something if that’s the mood you’re in.  The experience is very flat if Amazon is going to sell you both of those.  I feel that it’s basically a visual medium and the sound side of stuff is still quite under-developed.  So I always fell quite meated, or the experience feels quite meated.  It’s like black and white TV or something, there’s no texture to it and however much (….) is thrown at you it still lacks atmosphere.

Pete:	As you were saying, there’s a sensible limit to that anyway, if a site gets too.

R:	Zany, you’re just like I’m out of here.  I guess I’m sort of quite blinkered if I go into a site.  In the same way that I wouldn’t want to look round all the mens wear department in the store.  That’s not appropriate to me and it’s not what I’m looking to do and actually shopping in real space in central London is often so stressful, and. trying to sell it to me as a kind of leisure experience is really doing my head in and over stimulating me more than I need to.  I probably make choices about going to places where I’m turning into my mother, where they don’t play really loud music and it’s not really bright light anymore.  I guess I’ll probably.

Pete:	End up in Brent Cross shopping centre?

R:	Yea.  Or sensitive to how environments are put together to make you get in and out of a place fast to turn over customers.  Like make seats really uncomfortable and (…) so you don’t sit and chat and that kind of conspiracy theory.

Pete:	It’s always been part of the relationship, particularly in mass consumption, particularly, supermarkets are a good example, but fast food chains are an excellent example too.  What you’re saying is very interesting because there’s this issue of the potential conflict between the efficiency of these kinds of services; they’re potentially alienating the nature of the experience.

R:	Nike town for example.  It takes five minutes to get any stock from wherever you are and you don’t know you feel like you’re in a theme park.  Fascinated from a sociological point of view.  Don’t go and try and buy a pair of shoes there.  If I want to go and buy Nike shoes I’ll go and buy them in a trainers store and not in a museum of five stores and root maps everywhere and everyone else doing what they can not to buy anything.

Pete:	How do you see this panning out?  You’re clearly, you’re an old fashioned sort of a person.

R:	I’m a mass consumption snob I think, I’ll ashamedly say.

Pete:	Sure, that’s what you’re saying about the character of consumption, the experience of consumption for you and that sort of enchantment in consumption is what it makes it what it is for you and makes it a positive experience.  We’ve talked about the problems of reproducing that and how phernomanogicaly flat the medium is.  I think that’s right but what about future generations, are you also against this theme park idea, aren’t people embracing all this?

R:	I’m not against it, saying it’s a bad way to go or it isn’t what people want.  I think it is what people want because it’s given to us and we receive it because it’s a marvel and it’s a different atmosphere from turning up at your office every day or it’s a treat.  Or the opulence of the place and scale of the thing is so marvellous that you’re just on awe of it even though you may or may not appreciate how passive you are in it.  I’m probably very inconsistant about my feeling towards that kind of thing because the particular brands that perpetuate that kind of scale of shopping experience probably aren’t ones that I’m most interested in.  They’re not targeted to me, I’m not the right age, ethnic group or gender.  I’d be really interested to know how people to whom those places are absolutely targeted, whether they think critically about it at all.  The estate that I live on is a very mixed estate; there’s a lot of kids hanging around.  Half the people own their flats and half is local authority.  You often see kids hang around all day sort of minor drug dealing and just kind of doing nothing particularly constructive, all dressed head to toe in brand names.  One really odd thing yesterday was this girl sort of standing outside the arcade where she usually is with this huge Gucci bag.  It was so bizarre, do you think that Gucci ever intended to sell to, in the same way that Tommy Hillfigures sold us a very preppie, East Coast, affluent American brand, yet ghetto kids in America are probably the highest consumers of their stuff because it’s purchasing status.  So, that kind of soap box aside.  There are other kinds of experiences like, probably in terms of places to go and eat or other kind of lifestyle leisure experiences, because shopping is associated with that kind of thing as well, that I’d be more drawn to the gimmick of going to a sushi place where the robots serve you drinks or something.  Somewhere like Lugi, which is really funny, because its no brand goods but nothing has ever been over branded as much.  There’s the sense that they’ve sold you the utility idea, that it’s simple and you’re in and out and you know that everything is quite uniform and within a limited range.  It’s clever in that it’s acknowledged that people don’t want it in 27 fluorescent colours, just make this a painless experience for me.  So I think if that is translated on line, I think individual consumers are inconstant, they make choices that are indulgent and impulsive and irrational about some things and penny pinching and conservative about others.

Pete:	I think that’s right, that mix in consumption is absolutely right and you’ve picked out some nice examples of that.  I suppose the currant kinds of services that we’re seeing on line are limited compared to what you can do in real consumption.

R:	You can’t shop lift on line either, you probably could actually if it was an enormous warehouse of the stuff.

Pete:	Now that’s an interesting idea, maybe they should make it possible.  They could have a gaming element on the side that if you could just nick something off it then you could have it.

R:	That’s an excellent idea for a site actually.

Pete:	Yea that’s a good idea I’ll try and sell that one.

R:	I’m not necessarily endorsing it, but that’s part of the shopping experience I’m sure for kids I see in Oxford Street who go down there with bags from the shops that they’re going to.  You think OK fair enough there’s six of them and I wonder why there’s CCTV over there.  It’s a day out.

Pete:	Exactly and a lot of things you were saying pull out another aspect of this, which is that consumption, is a very public thing.  You’ve talked that you’re unsure about some of the more grotesque attempts to make it a leisure experience.  Never the less even this new kind of warehouse utility, which is one of the things that is developing, is never the less still very, very much public space and activity.

R:	Surfing isn’t.

Pete:	Surfing isn’t right, do you think that is significant?  The limitation on e-commerce in a sense?

R:	Yea, because I think for some people at some time going out and spending what they have just earned in the week is the highlight of their week before they go and get pissed on a Saturday night or something.  And why not, to take that away from them or to turn the activity to the same thing as they do all day at their desk everyday is I don’t know you could get really Marxist and part of their alienation and they’re given mass consumption would stop them revolting and rising up and saying I’m not putting up with this drudgery anymore.

Pete:	We could try for a more new (….) than that.

R:	We could.  I mean who cares about the high political debate about it, fact is it’s fun and it’s something you do socially with other people and you go people watching, you don’t necessarily spend any money.  You choose where you go to encounter other kinds of people like yourself or not like yourself.  Where you choose to go and where you choose to hang out are extensions of who you are.  If you’re doing it in your living room or the office none of that expression comes out.

Pete:	I think I agree with all that.  There’s a lot of hype and debate about forecasting the spread of e-commerce.  A lot of what you’re saying speaks to being quite cautious about that.  You were saying?

R:	I think that if quite a lot of impulsive inessential, what’s the word?  Spending your disposable income is base on a kind of chance encounter or the experience of all the sweaters lined up and they all look really great and when you’ve got one of them at home they don’t look so great anymore, it’s just the perfusion of things and the asperational qualities of seeing an object in context.  Those kind of things, the lighting, the atmosphere or the cute person at the counter that you want to have a kind of correspondence with before you leave the shop.  Or things about walking out the shop with the bag so other people see you are all lost and so the point of.  If retailers expect to generate that same atmosphere on line it’s probably not going to happen in the same way.  It may happen in a different ways, ways of linking or associating their sites with other brands or with sites that are not commercial but to do with the sub-culture or the market that they’re interested in.  But I still think it’s a private activity and it’s an individual activity.  While it’s still on a laptop or desktop it’s still one persons hand on the mouse; its not ooh get that one that’s much nicer, feel the quality of this.  There’s none of that kind of tactile encounter with shopping that there is with loading your basket and thinking god I can’t buy all these and put them all back again.  I think e-commerce will probably do a lot better when it’s for services you have to maintain.  The things that have taken off are things were the telephone has been the main way of buying insurance or something or other technological technical services like maintenance of your or upgrading software.

Pete:	Yes that’s interesting, some of the experiential stuff you’re talking about like buying insurance is not exactly.

R:	Yea right.  Things were the main point of purchasing something is just to get it done much more than the kind of fun, social, leisure side of it.  Even though those are the things that are most appealing to look at there seems to be little point to it.  Like why has this food brand got a website? I don’t care if tomato ketchup has got a website.  I don’t want to enter into a public (…) debate about ketchup either.  So things like buying travel tickets is not a social experience it’s dreadful.  I’ve had arguments with people about having to queue up in a travel agent.  Things were it’s an unpleasant experience or a dull experience to buy things and you’re not gaining anything by being in a physical space, you’re much better off doing it privately without going anywhere to do it.  I think I haven’t divided the two up in my mind but I think that’s the decision being made.

Pete:	What about other issues, a couple of other issues I want to go into.  One is alternative consumption websites like (…..), have you visited it?

R:	I haven’t seen the site but I know about it.

Pete:	Again, I mean there was a lot of hype that this would give instant access to people who had something critical to say in consumpsion.  What do you think of that?  I wonder if we can get the site up if you haven’t seen it.

R:	People only go to a site if they know it exists if they’ve got a reason to go there.  It’s not like some group are canvassing outside a shop you can’t avoid them when you’re trying to go in there. 

Pete:	It started as that and ended up as a website.

R:	The idea of lets make it a website and you don’t have to do anything afterwards.  It’s like yes you do because nobody’s going to look at it.  (……..)

Pete:	Are you going to get that book it’s quite a nice book?

R:	Yea I’m doing like a microwave thesis at the moment, it’s eight months work in like three days.

Pete:	I like that idea, a microwave thesis.  I’m writing a microwave paper at the moment.  It feels more like a pressure cooker though.

R:	yea that’s what it feels like.

Pete:	Where’ve I gone to here?

R:	I’ve no idea.

Pete:	Shall we try it, go on you try it.

R:	OK.

Pete:	It’s very interesting, it’s the use of campaign is again going to be quite tricky to reproduce on line.

R:	It’s about crowds and you don’t get a sense of a kind of aggravation of people.  It’s like you looking at the accumulated conversation that people have had over three months or whatever.

Pete:	See one or two examples of the net community having an e-mail campaign have been sighted as suggesting that this is going to be a very promising arena for a new kind of public protest.  You can get lots of people to send an e-mail protest.

R:	But are people who are geographically dispersed a social group.  Can they ever be as coherent as people who are in the same room stamping their feet or picketing or doing the things that define what an action group really are.

Pete:	I suppose you can lobby on line.  You can basically partition on line.  It’s the same story I suppose as e-commerce, you can do parts of it.  Any luck?

R:	McSpotlight.

Pete:	Yea that’s it.

R:	This is quite slick.  Is this case going on still?

Pete:	No, I think it’s finished now.   How do you think this compares to something like the consumers association, like Which, they have a website too and they have campaigns?  This is clearly structured; it almost mirrors that website.  If you looked at their website you’d see similar headings, issues, campaigns and so on.  I mean in other words the provision of advice and protest, the sort of on the consumers side part of consumption, how is that going to be changed or reproduced by e-commerce?

R:	 Again I think it’s likely at first the kind of territory on line will reflect the way the land lies in the traditional sense.  That unless you had a problem why on earth would you bother to learn anything about consumer affairs.  Only when something goes wrong do you start to investigate things like CAB or Which or Consumer Council or whatever.  Certainly having those on line is a great resource, it saves you having to queue up in the town hall or try to get through on the phone or whatever.  The other limitation is there’s usually a point at which no amount of information on line is a substitute for speaking to someone who knows and can articulate a response to a specific issue.

Pete:	Do you think that is partly the feature of the limitations of databases and programming as it is now?

R:	I think it is to do with the structure in which the Web presence of an organisation sits.  If one person updates it once a month or looks at the e-mail sent to the site once a week and it isn’t as acknowledged in the same way as taking the answer phone messages off the answer machine every morning, then there’s going to be that transitional state were people will think I’m better off ringing because I’ve no idea if anyone is going to answer this.

Pete:	Consumer Association are quite interested in the idea of basically as mobile phone technology develops people being to be able to access information.

R:	Look at this (……..) and wave your phone at them.

Pete:	You’re in a shop and you want to find out if the product is any good or whatever.

R:	Is that something that Which is interested in?

Pete:	Yea.

R:	Really, that’s sort of partly what my paper is about.  It’s about using hand held devises and networks to harness that potential to give users access to things that otherwise they’d have to go back to their PCs to look at and come back.

Pete:	I suppose what I’m asking is (…..) it’s just not flexible enough, it doesn’t relate to the consumption experience You think that a number of aspects of new technology have held on the one side on the other greater development in (..) software.

R:	Well I think when I’ve been talking about e-commerce here, I’ve been talking about it in this form, on a laptop.  But things like WHAP and (…) and the capacity to have access to the web wherever you are, whether you’re wireless or connected on line some how.  I think some quite crude decisions are made about what content people want on their devises.  Its determined more in terms of who one company can make a deal with or what services they have access to because they happen to have ownership of those services too.  Those kind of constraints determine what goes into if you press (…) you get access to theatre and film tickets because this also happens to be a service that this company is in to.  Who says I want my horoscope or the weather forecast in three countries on my phone?  I’d actually like to be able to select off the network what is appropriate to me.

Pete:	That’s interesting because another development in the wings is digital television and as a platform for e-commerce is going to be a very different kind of service I think.  It will have some of the visual, well some of the dynamic aspects because it’s television, they can place products and you can make selections.

R:	Watch me roll my eyes there.

Pete:	Yea.  In a sense, in the way you’re describing it is going to be a fairly constraint service.  It’s going to be (...) driven, there’s going to be pacific products you’re going to look at.

R:	I think it could not be but beyond the realms of the technology or the innovation of the designer to bring it all together I think what is going to constrain what the end user encounters is going to be as much business infrastructure issues than any content or reception issues.  Who has the means to control what goes up there.  It doesn’t mean that they decide to put everything up there and its great and you’ve as much choice as you ever did have.  I think at first the institutions and the agencies that are going to introduce the idea of having mobile data are going to be the ones with the money and they’re going to be the ones with the investment and the infrastructure and that’s the way that it will start.  It’s anyone’s guess how it will be interporated and what will we accept and what will we just ignore and what will take off like nobody expected.

Pete:	It’s very difficult to predict that.

R:	Yea.  If anyone had told Alexander Graham Bell or Marconi where their inventions where going to go they’d have not understood the answer.  Bur I guess that is the point of the research.  My strategy for working out what I specialise in the next couple of years is trying to kind of (…) or be a clairvoyant, about is it worth trying to get back into the net industry and if so should it be e-commerce or should it be interactive TV and should it be in this country of somewhere else and those kind of issues.  Or have I missed the boat on website technology and bear off in mobile devises or whatever.

Pete:	OK, that’s great, thanks very much.          








Ut42

No. 42 Single male, 18-35, High IT

O: I’ve got a car coming for me at about 7 o’clock - is that okay?

PL: Oh yeah, we’ll be finished before then. Okay, can you just say your name.

O: Yeah. O.

PL: Hi, I’m Peter, Peter Lunt. Okay, well we’re doing a project, talking to people about the Internet and specifically looking at e-commerce and the developments of e-commerce, and we’ll explore those in a bit. But I’d like to start with just outlining for me what your experience is with computers generally and Internet  as background.

O: Okay, ultimately the first time I was acquainted to the Web, the Internet was 1993 - no, sorry, ‘94 - erm, I was working for  a magazine as a deputy editor and the World Wide Web had just had its first outing. Essentially we were avid followers of Wired magazine in its very early days and felt it would be a great idea to communicate with those who had email addresses in the States and who were thinking in similar ways as we were on the magazine. The magazine was mainly a youth and lifestyle based publication but it dealt in many ways I guess with future technologies - near future technologies and I guess things that were up and coming in terms of how people would use technology in the future. Erm, so we equipped the magazine with an email address and I sent my first email to whoever I could find with another email address in Wired magazine back in 1994. From then I became hooked really on a lot of what was happening. There wasn’t a great deal really on the Web at that time but what there was was still quite astounding and the possibilities were what drove me I guess to get more involved in the industry. I guess 6 months after that I was in another job, but still rather curious about the Internet, the other job that I was doing at that point in time was business to business journalism that really didn’t give me much of a chance to dabble in the Internet, so in my spare time myself and a few colleagues formed a magazine on the Internet, rather like the Youth Lifestyle magazine we were working on previously. That, I guess went on for quite a while and gave us an opportunity to have a look at how contact would be delivered via the Internet and how would people would access that. Erm it was phenomenally successful in those early days and we had a lot of interest and obviously there wasn’t really much in the UK at that particular point in time that was er - well, comparative in any way, shape or form erm... so it gave us a good opportunity to dabble in that and to have a good idea of what was forthcoming. We were being closely watched by Unilever, large conglomerate in the wings, who wanted to launch a soft drink into the UK. So when they came to us with x-amount of cash and said, ‘We want a ( ) presence,’ we said - sure, okay, fine - give us x-amount of cash and we’ll do something for you. We had no idea of, I guess, running a business, least of all an Internet business, but we felt this was an opportunity too good to miss so we incorporated, formed a company and I’ve been working in the industry ever since.

PL: Right, excellent. I mean, it’s very interesting hearing you talk about those early days and the sort of character of the time, the sort of frontier  conception. The sort of being there first was clearly key at that stage...

O: Yeah, it was very important at that stage I felt 

PL: I mean, how do you think things have changed in terms of...

O: Oh erm unbelievably so. There is much more of a commercial aspect to any business done on the Internet - as I say, in those early days you know, you really couldn’t get anybody to talk about the commercial aspects of the Internet because there were none. Erm, so you know, the magazine that we formed was really there as a means of, I guess, catching the advertising revenue as and when it came. It took a lot longer than we first expected and all of the early predictions were very bullish to say the least, so usership was not as forthcoming as we first thought it would be in the UK and world-wide, obviously for different reasons here than in the US - not least of which, meter call charges and so on. But the idea of being first, and I guess the fear, the fear factor was something that drove you to continue 

PL: Yeah - if you don’t get out there quickly 

O: Yeah, precisely. You know, I mean, we had the impression in the early days that if we didn’t do something in 6 months then it would be too late. And still today I hear similar talk of - okay, we need to do this in the next 6 months or it will be too late - and I’m less of that impression now, I’m much more relaxed in terms of the business time-scales involved in getting something to market.

PL: Well there’s a sort of paradox in the way that you’ve described it with the sort of slow uptake combined with the sort of almost panic and hysterical dimension of the industry, it’s an interesting paradox that. So, I mean, you think the time-scale’s settling down in a way, or the realisations that 

O: I think the predictions are becoming more realistic, there are a lot more professional organisations doing, I guess, audits and surveys now and in terms of any prediction, they will range from a very bullish prediction to something that’s very conservative. So you tend to take a conservative guess or the lowest figure that is offered a lot of the time. I think also there are new avenues for people to get  I guess, for people to er wage hyperbole against, so, you know, digital television for instance - oh the take-up will be phenomenal - no it won’t, it will take a while, and you know, other such tools - even say like the mobile phone and as we move forward in terms of the Internet industry and any communications industry in that respect, it becomes more and more difficult to draw up - you know, even a 3 year business plan for instance. Erm, nobody could have anticipated ‘freeserve’ or er I guess, you know the mobile phone industry has gone through a sizeable change due to erm you know hand-sets that are virtually given away now so  A lot of what takes place can really be affected by a change in the market that, can at the time, seem very insubstantial but as a result something changes quite rapidly.

PL: Right, right. So you still see the possibility for  I mean it’s a sort of insecure market in that sense, in the sense that one can’t quite tell what the next innovation is going to take, is going to be and that that has - what? Can have restructuring effects, major restructuring effects?

O: Oh yes, definitely and in every organisation so you tend to hedge your bets by, I guess, drawing up alliances with as many different parties as possible  erm, it’s a spread bet essentially, so you - you know - in the case of  ITN for instance, you form several alliances with all major parties of the people you think are going to be the winners in a particular market. But you make sure that you are working with one of the people who will win in the end. Erm, it’s funny, but if you go to an industry association meeting - could be on advertising standards, or it could be on, I guess, auditing or regulatory standards or anything like that, you will look around the room and you’ll see most of your partners. And you know that everybody else is doing exactly the same - everybody works with everybody else at the moment which is  it’s fun, it’s funny to watch in fact because 

PL: Yeah right... and do you think this is in a sense pre-competitive alliances, is it that the market’s not shaped up yet so 

O: Oh yeah, the market’s still shaping itself so you need to make sure that whichever platform wins out, that you are there.

PL: Right, right, now that’s interesting, we can explore some of those changes a bit more in a bit - but what about the user in all this. You’re giving an interesting picture of change and changing business practice and innovation and how that affects the market and so on  what about the user, has the conception of the user changed over that time as well?

O: Er... yeah, the conception of the user has changed, largely because you, as an industry  Internet industry professional or communications industry professional erm... the market has grown up. So rather than expecting the market to come to you, you need to go to the market. That may mean making your product simple enough so that the mass users can get to grips with it. Whereas a few years ago there was really an arrogance in the market - oh, they will come, if you build it, they will come, and they’ll convert and they’ll need to understand so why should we make it simple. And as you know, soft-wear industry suffered from that conception and it had to, I guess, go through a shift to make applications as simple as possible to use. You know, why should a user compromise their own needs, their user needs, to meet the market.  PL: So to some extent the user was technically defined originally 
 O: Yes.

PL: I mean, and the technical issues were the most interesting and important ones anyway and the people pursuing those  I mean, how much are these market disciplines that you’re talking about going to affect the kinds of services that are available?

O: I think greatly. What I’ve just described really coincided with a greater number of marketers moving into the industry. Obviously technologists understand technology and they implement that well, however they don’t understand, to a large degree - not exclusively, but to a large degree they don’t understand user experience or making a product as user-friendly as possible. So I think the marketing aspects of the Internet industry, when that came on board it was more of case of - okay, well how do we make this commercially viable? Okay, we need to get as many people using it as possible, how do we do that - we make it simple. You go back to your drawing board and say, ‘Look, we need to make this simpler.’ And you have to fight with the tech-ies and so on. I mean, it’s a strange discipline in that respect. I mean I, initially, because I was involved in the industry in quite an early stage, I think I have a sympathy for both disciplines - yes I know how to ( ) page, I know exactly how a user may use the Internet, but you also have to understand how it needs to be marketed in order for that to be a success, and how - if it’s marketed incorrectly - it won’t be. There’s a lot to be said for first-to-market advantage, but then on the other hand there’s a lot to be said of letting somebody else make the mistakes first of all 

PL: Yeah, and then coming in with these improvements in service. Yeah... to some extent I suppose, one of the things that’s interesting about that is that some of the edge - some of what’s interesting about the Internet as a space and as a market as well in the early days, well some people might feel that that was compromised by too much influence of market principles 

O: I’m sure that you could argue that could be the case. I would counter-argue that until new media is considered ‘media’, simply ‘media’ - another market, another channel, another market area - until the user can use aspects of the Internet without realising they’re using the Internet then really you haven’t got a market. The user doesn’t need to know where they are, all they need to have is a good service and if they have a good service then they don’t need to be told that they’re surfing the Internet for it.

PL: Right. I mean the tech-ies are still out there - right? - hitting certain areas, I mean some of the things like Dataline and Intelligent software engineering, I mean the tech-ies are still trying to push the service in that way. I mean a lot of what you’re saying sets up a model, quite a conservative one, that this will be a service that will find its place, in a sense, and be disciplined by marketing principles and so on and so forth.  O: I wouldn’t say ‘disciplined’ I would say coaxed and shaped and moulded by marketing principles. However, what marketing can’t do is, I guess, glean functionality out of an application, which is where the technology comes in, and I think the technologists have moulded their position, they have metamorphosed into a new sort of function, they’re not about driving technology for its own sake now, they’re about finding solutions, which, in turn, I guess, working with marketers and working with people who understand how people will use those applications, that’s where you marry the two together, you know, they can’t exist in isolation. You can’t divorce technology from marketing, from, I guess, editorial or user-functionality and so on.  PL: Sure, sure. I mean the sort of relatively slow take-up that you talked about - and you sort of hinted at call charges and there’s the price of technology to begin with I suppose, but do you think that’s the whole story, or do you think there’s a reason why things moved slower than people anticipated - I mean, from the point of view of the user’s perspective or experience 

O: Again, I’d say this is partly to do with the marketing of the Internet and the World-Wide-Web and so on. Until the likes of AOL came along the Internet was really an exclusive domain, the likes of Demon or Easinet, a lot of the early ISP’s in the UK, it wasn’t their job to make it easier to get on-line - you were either an enthusiast or not, you know - you either knew how to configure your PPP, you know, account or not. Whereas AOL obviously - and I have to say it’s probably something to do with the way American businesses, largely service-driven, came on board with a model that said, ‘Look, you don’t need to know about the Internet, you don’t need to know how we do this, as long as you can do it - if you can’t do it, that’s our problem, we’ll take care of it. Don’t feel ashamed about needing to ask or whatever,’ and I think that there was a real snobbery I guess which I partook in, I guess, in the early days, it was an exclusive domain, and partly wanted it to remain that way. To this day you still hear people who have been involved in the industry for a long time saying, ‘It’s not how it used to be.’ - and of course it isn’t, nor should it be, you know, it’s about market evolution.

PL: Sure, sure. What about those kinds of developments that I was just talking about though? Cos in a sense you’re arguments are about a new set of users coming on-line without the technical background and therefore a service orientation’s crucial, you’ve got to mediate their experience in that way. But what about the way that that changes consumption and the way that people think about services and products - does it have any impacts of those kinds do you think?

O: I think fundamentally, yes. I mean, if a service can be made accessible to a large number of people then that can have a huge change in the market - and again, I’ll underscore the marketing aspects of that as well and how a service is marketed. Freeserve came into the market, didn’t do any advertising for about 6 months. As soon as they did, they emphasised what you could do through the Internet - you know, they gave you examples of perhaps things that new users to the Net didn’t know you could do. AOL did roughly the same sort of thing, so it wasn’t about - oh there are lots of great websites out there - because there are a lot of bad websites out there as well, it was about - this is what you can do on our service, you can get news, you can get information, you can have a look at your local listings - you know, that sort of thing. Emphasised those outlets, which the average user, the new user to the Internet or the, I guess, the person who’s about to convert to using the Internet, they’re used to that, they’re used to that model in the real world so when they get on-line if they can do something similar it will have an affect on the market.

PL: Right, right. And what  you mentioned digital television, I mean there’s a trajectory here that we’re talking about, there’s no reason to think it will stop where we are now - how do you see it developing, I mean what kinds of services will be the ones that do develop and work in the future?

O: That’s the big question isn’t it. That’s the big question. We’re involved in trials at the moment with the major digital, cable players in the market and there are several factors. One is take-up - how fast that will occur. Secondly it’s the range of services that will be available and how people will use their television set  everybody anticipates banking and home-shopping services erm but, you know, that remains to be seen - will that usability be more functional via the Internet, or will you do it via your mobile phone... it’s an unknown quantity. I mean there are certain services that probably will prevail, like very simple banking transactions, or I guess repeat grocery shopping. But really, you know, I’ve seen the digital television systems and they are quite cumbersome.

PL: Exactly, yeah.

O: They’re not easy to use and the interface design is  leaves a lot to be desired. A lot of it is based on Web design and, you know, if you’re a new user to a digital service, an interactive service, if all you’ve used is teletext then you’re used to colour-coded buttons or numbers, you’re not used to, I guess, menu-driven information. So the earlier designs for a lot of digital cable providers was based on scrolling down and that sort of thing, whereas the simple idea would be to make it a numbered menu, which people understand. And they’re coming round to that way of thinking now but it took a while.

PL: Well I know because the original talk was all about convergence, whereas now there’s been this subtle shift I think. If it went in that direction how would that cash out, I mean - the opposite of convergence in one sense maybe - do you think you’re going to get a set of fairly stripped-down services  that television and other  ?  O: Yeah. I mean I think you’ll use your Internet devices differently. You’ll have a number of network devices in your home, you won’t think of them as Internet connected but... so your mobile phone perhaps will be able to call up local information - you know, it’s on your person so if you’re in Reading or out of London you can call up a local cinema or a local taxi or whatever. I guess your home computer or your work computer may be getting very heavy-duty information, maybe data-based driven information erm  be that on a business or a personal level, and your television set will be for I guess very - well not very simple, but simpler - interactive elements like what you described I think.

PL: Right - I mean the convergence model was attractive because of the - well partly because I suppose of the equality of it, that in a sense everyone would have the same service. I mean do you think there are issues about who’s going to access to what kinds of services ?  O: I think less so now. I mean there is much less talk of which platform will win out - TV or computer. I don’t think it’s a case of that any more. And if you look at mobile phone penetration in the UK, it’s nearly up to 25 percent now, so you know everybody will have a mobile phone eventually or a hand-held device of some description which will be a network device, but you won’t think of it as an Internet ready device, you’ll just use it.

PL: Just use it for their specific services. Yeah, that’s interesting. So basically you’re talking about a range of technical and marketing advances that are slowly going to grow  the use of these technologies for commercial purposes. Okay, do you think... there’s a lot of concerns that users have still - I mean, you know, some of the reasons for the slowness of take-up maybe are specific kinds of concerns that users have. I mean, imagining the user coming into the market, what do you see those concerns to be?

O: Well the obvious one is security, obviously censorship and information that perhaps need to be censored, regulation. I guess those are the main areas. And I think the benefit of off-line brands moving on-line now, which sort of underscores what I was saying earlier about not necessarily needing to be there in the first 5 minutes of a new wave, is that the traditional brands, the brands that are known off-line can move on-line with that predetermined trust. You know - Marks and Spencer on-line will be trusted, whereas say, if you are a pure Internet commerce brand then you’ll have a more difficult time, I guess, convincing the user that (a) you’re reputable, and (b) you will deliver, so that is where off-line brands have an advantage, and you know that is evident in the market 

PL: It’s interesting isn’t it cos Marks and Spencer’s has not had a transaction site, it still hasn’t, that’s interesting 

O: You can be sure that when they do they’ll carry that trust on-line with them. It’s very each, on the contrary, to damage your brand on-line by having a  an insecure system, although you have a longer shelf life, I think the public would be more forgiving because you have this off-line presence, but it is very easy to ruin that good-will that you’ve built up with your public.

PL: Yeah, there is this sort of feeling of reluctance on the industry’s part - you know, Marks and Spencer’s would be an example of it I suppose - a sort of caution, I suppose, on the industry’s side, matched in a sense by a caution on the user’s side as well - I mean some of the sort of slow take-up that you’re talking about - do you see that as something that’s going to roll back slowly with development ?

O: Yeah, I think so, a number of things will happen. Firstly, as more reputable brands move on-line they will carry the trust that’s been built off-line. Secondly, the pure Internet brands will themselves build trust - you know, you trust Amazon, for instance, because you’ve heard a lot about it and you know it’s a very successful book shop on-line and even if you have never used the Internet, somebody you know has bought a book from Amazon and done okay with that - so, fine, you’ll do it. And secondly I believe people will have less of a problem making a purchase with their television set than they will do through the Internet for the simple reason that they won’t consider it as an on-line property - it’s your television set, you trust your television set - I’m not going to get robbed from my television, fine, I’ll enter a credit card  and I think people will have less of a problem with that.

PL: That’s an interesting thought, because I think there is some reluctance to give credit card details over the Internet and so your point is that these devices  it won’t be visible to the user that it’s an Internet connection in the same sense as current technology. I mean current technology is still pretty sort of  I mean, you know, it’s the hard-wired-ness of it, it’s visible what kind of mechanism it is in a sense. Okay, that’s interesting. That sort of transfer of trust  is there anything new about the trust relationships that are going to have to be maintained in this new environment, or is it  cos you’ve talked about a transfer of trust and I think that’s right, it’s an interesting perspective on it - but is there anything different? I mean, you know, to some extent the reluctance of Marks and Spencer’s might be related to perceived dangers in this new kind of environment that might affect their real brand as it were. I mean, what are the differences, what are the dynamics of the trust relationship, how are they affected by moving into e-commerce?

O: I think they are  they can be affected in a number of ways. I would say a brand like Marks and Spencer’s, for instance, need to make sure that their on-line operation is a resource to the point that it will not be a failure - it will not fail. That could damage their brand ( ). Also  I mean if you take a brand like Microsoft - you know, their hotmail system for instance that gets broken into time and time again - that’s damaging for Microsoft. For instance ITN - and we’re not alone in this - have barred usage of hotmail now as a result of that and I know this is happening across the board with a lot of services. So that can affect your business. You may remember a few years ago Point Cast - it’s not quite the same, it’s sort of related - had an affect on corporate servers whereby it put a lot of strain on them so a lot of corporations banned the use of Point Cast and that in turn drove the company’s value down until the point where they had to sell for a ridiculously low amount of money. So, you know, the trust that you carry on-line can be damaged as an e-commerce player, as a technology player, if you don’t have the infrastructure to make sure that it’s serviced correctly.

PL: Right. But are these problems that can necessarily be dealt with on a technical level?

O: There’s a lot in your control at the end of the day, naturally there’s a lot of wild cards out there that you’ll never have control of, but I believe it’s easier to distance yourself from those now. I think, as an e-commerce player, if you have, I guess, a secure enough environment and you have essentially what is a walled garden service, you can make that secure to a degree - yes, you’re always going to be subject to maybe hackers or whatever but on-line banking, for instance, is an area that you need to be able to rely on, you need that reliance before you’ll even consider making a transaction 

PL: What do you think the public think about this, I mean do they 

O: I think they’re warming to it, I think they are warming to it. You know, the age-old comparison is that you give your credit card to the waiter, and to this day that still holds true. You know, there’s a lot more off-line credit card fraud, as a percentage of usage, that takes place than on-line - you know, and I think that will remain. There is a fear factor that has been largely promoted and driven by the media - you know, you can’t use on-line shopping services because are you sure it’s secure - so credit card companies will issue, I guess, shopping guidelines, how not to get ripped off on the Web, that sort of thing. Which in itself, you know, it can be a help but it can also  introduces that fear.

PL: Yeah, it’s like not talking too much about aircraft safety before someone steps on an aircraft - but some aeroplanes do crash I suppose. I don’t know  so in a sense, the maintenance of trust relationships you see as good technical practice on the one hand, supported by reasonable public relations.

O: I would say more than reasonable, I would say excellent public relations and an excellent  technological infrastructure.

PL: Yes, yes. I mean, Microsoft defended themselves quite strongly over the hotmail issue, I mean they’ve been subject to a lot of scandals of that kind - I mean if we call them scandals, perhaps scandals is too strong a word, perhaps breaches of that kind. They seem to just ride through that on a certain level. I mean I suppose I’m  one picture that comes out of what you’re saying is of an industry carefully regulating itself and managing these situations as well, but if you look at Microsoft as an example, they haven’t necessarily done that - they’ve gone for it and lived with the mistakes and problems basically. 

O: I think the difference there is that Microsoft, you know, in their terms of service they will always say, ‘Hey! It’s just email, it’s not safe, we told you so.’ Whereas an e-commerce player can never say that irrespective of their terms of service you know, they can’t say, ‘We warned you you might get robbed, sorry darlings.’ That won’t play basically.

PL: Okay. Shall we have a look at some sites and talk around them and see how they illustrate some of these points  What about some of the innovations that I was talking about earlier as well, to come back to that - the... things like Data( ) again, in relation to the management of trust that we’ve been talking about. I mean, one of the innovations is that companies can gather and manage much more detailed information about shoppers  do you think that’s going to be a concern? I mean, what do you think, do you think there’s a high level of understanding about that kind of process amongst the public now?

O: No, I think on the contrary I’m not sure a lot of people realise how much data they can, I guess, in various visits to various Websites, submit. You lose track of that. It’s very easy to build up a profile of somebody, there are many software applications, advertising management applications on the Internet that are  large Websites used, for instance - our own included - which can build up a user profile, an anonymous user profile, but a user profile all the same. And it will work on various assumptions, you know, so if you visit baby clothing sites ( ) you’re probably likely to be pregnant and having a baby in the next 8 months, so there’s an ad for Farley’s rusks, that sort of thing. But I think there’s probably a large number of people who forget about the large amount of information they submit to our Website. Even anonymous information such as a cookie which will follow you around and figure out where you’re going to and so on. But it can serve to help you in a sense because then marketing becomes more efficient and more applicable to the individual.

PL: Right, but the service principles that you talked about earlier could, as they develop  well there could be some tension between them and the issue of informed consent in a way, in the sense that you’re talking now. I mean if the design is successful in a sense then people precisely won’t be aware of those sorts of things. I mean is that a new kind of problem, as it were, for retail companies or is that 

O: It depends whether you see it as a problem or an opportunity, you know. If it allows you to market more successfully, more efficiently and to offer your consumers what they actually want as opposed to trying to blanket sell, then that can work for both parties. However, in order to do that, yes you will need information from the user, a lot of which they may not know they’re submitting. So it is a bit of a moral dilemma I think. (laughs)

PL: (laughs) I mean I don’t know if companies have too many scruples about that, but they don’t seem to be too worried about it.

O: I mean I would also say that companies probably have a larger concern than they’re given credit for the simple reason that the more information they hold about some individual, the more regulation will be enforced and the more they will be constrained in their own markets. So there is a school of thought that would actually wish to limit the amount of information you can collect about any one individual, which is why, for instance, user-profiling for ad-serving technologies are anonymous, unless you have been given consent from the user. Otherwise it’s a case of, okay I know where you’ve been in the last month, but I’ve no idea who you are. It’s a compromise in that sense you know.

PL: Well I think that’s very interesting, I mean I think again public awareness of that kind of issue is quite low at the moment, and I think there is a danger that people will  once it becomes more publicly known the extent to which data can be gathered about you on-line they will draw more negative conclusions. Cos you mentioned earlier around the security issue of the sort of press, in a way, presenting this as a sort of moral panic in a way, as a problem for people, I mean I think that’s what I was getting at - is there a danger that the way the market is moving, that that becomes a danger as well, that people 

O: I think if you look at off-line examples, there are many and several and I believe the consumer is smarter than a lot of the market gives them credit for. For instance, loyalty cards from shopping centres - they know what you buy, they know how frequently you buy that, they know where you buy and essentially how much you’re spending. They probably know if you’ve got children they probably know if you’re on a diet, they can figure out a lot of things from simply your shopping habits. Based on that they can either cross-market - I don’t know - financial services, I know there’s supposed to be a walled garden between the two but, you know, it’s very debatable as to whether that actually exists or not and how effective it is. They can also market certain products, I mean for instance, they have - Sainsbury’s for one have their, I think it’s a monthly, no sorry, a quarterly mailshot that goes out and they have 6 versions based on the sort of consumer you are. So, you know, different coupons for  different types of shopper. It’s a niche shopping experience really, and I think consumers are aware of this, they do realise that, okay, well these people know what I’m buying and where; my bank knows where I’m drawing out my money and ultimately where I’m spending it, they probably know what restaurant I’m dining in. There’s a heck of a lot of information you can gather about people already anyway. I guess the ironic thing is that companies don’t yet know how best to utilise that information. So, classic example Cable and Wireless do a huge survey, largest consumer survey ever launched and didn’t know quite how to utilise that information so 

PL: (laughing) Ha, they should give it to me. No, that’s right, that’s right, absolutely, although it’s underdeveloped there’s a lot of effort going into finding ways of making use of that kind of data now. See, I suppose the sort of territory I’m getting into here, to some extent these issues  I’m wondering if there are any implications that have to be taken on board in this notion of using more and more information - I mean, it’s there, why not use it - and the thin line I suppose I’m proposing between efficiency in marketing terms so you’re not wasting people’s time and so on and so forth, and a sort of more  which can be done at a fairly crude level like having 6 different versions of coupons or whatever, but looking into this highly individualised, and whether that’s going to be, in a sense, something qualitatively different  and whether that has to be managed in a particular kind of way.

O: I think so, I think you’re right. I mean, it depends how you  how the question is asked I imagine. I mean if you spoke to any consumer and said, ‘Would you only like to see the ads that pertain to you? Would it be a help if we filtered everything else out - you know, you’re not a driver so you don’t want to see car ads but you do like Cornflakes so you want to see ads about Cornflakes, perhaps or more information on financial services. Would you like that sort of service?’ And they, more often than not, would say, ‘Of course.’ But if you told them, ‘Okay, well would you like us to have x-amount of data, personal data, your personal data about you, stored elsewhere so we can tell who you are, when you’re logging on and where you are and so on.’ then that obviously makes people nervous. And it’s a balance between that. And I agree, it’s a fundamental balance that needs to be reached.

PL: So how do you think it’s likely to go? How will it be played?

O: I think it’ll be played very highly-personalised services. I think there will come a time when the user will have less of a concern in terms of submitting personal information such as that. If you think about it, by the time they’ve mapped the human genome they’ll be a lot more to worry about really so 

PL: I mean, that’s an interesting comparison. You see, traditional  cos you’ve talked about the transfer of trust from traditional modes of consumption. Traditional modes of consumption are basically anonymous and the rights of the consumer are protected by that anonymity, but the fact that it’s almost like a - not a right exactly, but almost - that if you’ve got the money, that shopping is a public activity and that if you’ve got the money and if you don’t break the law, you can buy and that that’s a public process and that prices are set accordingly and they’re publicly available  all that sort of thing. Now a lot of  if you think of some of the implications of direct one-to-one marketing, getting away from a sort of crude model that gives you the coupons you might like, but really pushes down that line further and further until you get to a position where basically prices are being set according to your profile. Now isn’t that a different kind of dilemma and a different kind of 

O: Yeah - well, you say it’s anonymous but it isn’t that anonymous. I mean obviously  if you buy a flight ticket for instance, a holiday flight ticket using a credit card or if you   you know, you may be faced with the option for travel insurance from an organisation related to that transaction. Similarly, in the States one of the major shopping, I guess grocery shopping chains over there have recently implemented an electronic pricing mechanism which runs across several stores so that you can look at prices  instead of having to get someone to run round and punch the actual price of the product onto the product itself, you simply have an electronic display which gives you that price. Now using that, (1) it reduces your labour costs substantially. Secondly, it means that if you’re selling particularly well in a certain area with a certain product, it means you can re-stock quickly, price it accordingly and you know that’s not so anonymous, that’s regionalised, I guess, user-tracking, consumer-tracking and that’s personalised in many ways isn’t it?

PL: Yeah, no, sure. I mean this is a debate that’s not been very publicly had I suppose. I mean I think that’s right and I think that’s a very interesting thought because  I mean, I think traditionally the issues about privacy that we’ve been talking about  I mean, they’ve primarily been data-protection issues and the assumption is that it’s specific detailed personal information, maybe sensitive information that’s of concern. Whereas I think your example’s a nice one because it illustrates that privacy can be invaded at many different levels - I mean even, in a sense, firms knowing about the community that you live in, can be an invasion of your privacy, although it’s not an invasion of your personal 

END OF SIDE ONE

PL: Why I’m pressing this is that - how much do the principles of service and design that you started with and that have been definitely the ones that have been shaping the market, how much do they run contra to the kinds of discussion that there perhaps needs to be about these sorts of issues. I mean there’s an irony isn’t there?

O: Yes, there is, yeah. That’s a good question.

PL: And whose responsibility is it to open up that discussion 

O: I think it’s a responsibility  I don’t think it lies, or nobody’s claimed responsibility for it, it will simply happen I believe.

PL: Right. How?

O: Users will, certain users will question, the media definitely will question - the media will benefit as well.

PL: The media, as you’ve already pointed out - and I think rightly - tend to do this in a certain kind of way and you know - they like panic, they like scandals, they like a good story. I mean, that’s not necessarily going to get to a careful and considered discussion about these types of issues. But - I mean, maybe I’m wrong, I don’t know - but I don’t see much public discussion of these kinds of issues.

O: No there isn’t. I mean, Data Protection - DPR - are really  they’re not quite sure how to figure this one out I mean, the  one of the companies that I deal with, who offer an ad management system based on anonymous profiling make sure that the DPR is across everything they do. And they actually actively approach the DPR and say, ‘Look, this is what we’re doing, this is how we intend to do it. What are you unhappy with?’ And, you know, they do that in each territory that they intend to expand into. And it’s a nice surprise for the DPR because they don’t usually get that, they usually have to attack a market. So, you know, a lot of the technologists behind this information are the ones to say, ‘Look, we want to be kosher with this, we want you to say, ‘Okay, you’re fine to operate in our market.’ So the technologists, the marketers, the manufacturers of the technology itself as opposed to the users of the technology i.e. the ( ) themselves.

PL: Okay, okay, that’s interesting. Although at my most cynical, I suppose, the Data Protection as a paradigm for the securing of specific personal, sensitive personal information is the wrong paradigm because that’s sort of not the issue any more. I mean some of the nuances, some of the difficulties of the issues around privacy and security that we’ve been talking about are, you know, complicated issues of ownership of data. I mean, it’s not a simple matter any more of having this list of characteristics stored about an individual on a particular  and whether or not it’s accessible or not, which is the basic data protection paradigm 

O: That’s true 

PL: So I’m not sure that’s going to get it, in a sense. I mean it’ll get a stamp of approval, but it’s not necessarily going to deal with the problem.

O: That is a good point actually.

PL: You see the big issue there that we’re getting into is the limits of regulation. I mean the issue about regulation is that there’s a lot of fatalism about the possibility of regulating these markets 

O: And again, it’s who should regulate that 

PL: Exactly. Self-regulation’s been touted as the 

O: Yeah  you almost need to form a new set of bodies really because the old thinking only transfers so well. It’s not that easy for say the ITC to move into the Internet domain, because, I’m sorry that - yes, we’re a broadcaster, but this isn’t broadcasting. Or, even you know the DPR as you rightly put it, or perhaps if the 

PL: Or the Advertising Association.

O: Yeah, the Advertising Association or the er  you know, I guess mail-order regulation bodies as well, you know there’s a lot to consider there. It’s an entirely new way of doing business and it’s another channel to market, simply shocking but it is a very new way of doing that.

PL: Okay, okay. Have you got any other issues that have come to mind while we’ve talked that 

O: Erm  you’ve been quite thorough - you’re having trouble dialling...

PL: Oh I can’t get on-line, I don’t know what’s going on with this thing. I’ll try one more time shall I? I’ll try this one and see if that’s more successful. I was just going to have a look at some sites and get your reactions to them. No  it thinks that the line is busy, there might be something wrong with the connection here or the phone-line itself.

O: Can I ask you about the project?

PL: Yeah, sure.

O: Can you give me a précis, an outline of what it is.

PL: Yeah, okay - well, thanks for the interview anyway, that’s great.

O: Oh, thank you.



Ut43

Ut43; Male, cohabitee, 18-35 A:

A: Erm, I’ve used word processing packages, spreadsheets. I use a lot of experiment generating packages like Now and ( ) Scope and things like that. I do a bit of programming in C and a programme called ‘Cogent’ erm and I use the Internet a lot and that’s my 

PL: Right, right. And what do you use the Internet for, I mean mainly they were work things that you were just describing, that programming and...

A: Yeah, yeah. Mainly I use computers for work and the Internet I use for work and for pleasure, I read newspapers on the Internet, I read the English newspaper, I book tickets for gigs and theatre on the Internet, things like that.

PL: Oh, right - how often have you done that, actually booking tickets?

A: Er... about 10, 20 times...

PL: And that’s what you’ve used it for in terms of transactions, in terms of buying things?

A: Yeah, yeah. And air tickets I buy as well on the Internet.

PL: Right, right. And do you pay credit card?

A: Yeah, yeah.

PL: And are you concerned about that?

A: No, not really. I mean, apparently it goes through the same lines as when you go to a shop and they put it through their machine - that’s also interceptible if people try so no I’m not so worried. I check my statements carefully when I get them...

PL: Right, right. But it’s a similar risk, you think to existing 

A: Yeah, yeah. I’m not sure if it’s true.

PL: No. There’s been some concern about it I think and er there’s some effort made by the sites to provide security 

A: Yeah, yeah... by encrypting things  is that safe or ?  PL: Well, that’s not for me to say really. But it’s a new area so I suppose it’ll take time to shake out and see where it is. But did you check your statements anyway... did you tend to do that?  A: Yeah. I did, I always did that anyway. But with the risk of things happening to my account without my knowing I do check more, yeah.

PL: And do you think it’s an increased risk?  A: Yeah, I do yeah. I must say I did postpone... the first time I did it I did postpone that decision, but once I’d done it once, and I think I had to do it once cos I wanted to get tickets that I could only get through the Net and so... for a gig, so I thought, ‘Oh I’ll do it,’ and once I’d done it once I thought 

PL: You were into it...

A: Yeah, exactly, you thought, well as I’ve given my number to the outside world, I may as well do it again. Yeah, cos it’s always easier...

PL: I think that’s interesting, I think that’s an interesting description of it because I think there is that sort of barrier to trying it for the first time and people sort of stop themselves there, and although they use Internet sites for consumption, for finding out about things, for information, so flights - they’d find out about flights, but necessarily do the final booking.

A: No. But I’m not that sure. For example, some airlines you can only book... you can’t book through an agent like Easyjet, so you either book it on the Net or you book it by giving your credit card number through the phone, which I’m not sure  I’m not saying - I’m not up-to-date on it - but I’m not sure whether it is any safer so, if those are the options I’m quite happy to do it on the Net.

PL: And what other aspects of consuming or buying on the Net have you sort of heard about or thought about or  have you browsed any other sites that are commerce sites?  A: I’ve heard about  I’ve talked to my colleagues about buying CDs on the Net and I think one of them actually was subscribing because he could get a large amount of discount if he could get other people onto this site and so I think I’m going to have to buy CDs over the Net, which are supposed to be cheaper than in the shops. So that’s one thing that I’ve heard about and I’ll probably do.  PL: And have you checked out those sites or have you just heard that it can be done...?

A: No, I’ve just heard about it. They’ll probably get in touch with me and  I look at Loot sometimes when I want to check out prices of second hand things I check the Loot Website, which only has old ads on it, you have to subscribe to Loot to get the latest ads... something like 3 or 4 days old. But it’s just good to get an idea of prices 

PL: If you’re looking for something 

A: Yeah. And what else, let me think... Well, yes, checking air fares for example is good, there are Websites that give you all the different fares for different airlines, just to get an idea of what the prices are for flights without necessarily booking it.

PL: Okay, okay. Let’s look a t a few sites and see what you think and get your reaction to them, tell me what you think about them.

A: Okay, okay.

PL: I mean I’ve got a few bookmarked that we can start from but if you want to spin off and... try anything else, let me know. I’ve got a few here, where shall we start? Have you heard about the auctions, the on-line auctions?

A: Yeah, I have. I’m quite interested in it but I’ve never seen them actually.

PL: Well shall we have a look at one of those cos here’s one here.

A: Yeah, yeah. So do they happen at particular times, do you have to be there at the right time to participate in the auction?

PL: Ah, no. It’s an ongoing thing and there’ll be a deadline, either a bid price which is a maximum price or a time when the bidding has to stop.

A: Oooh, right, okay.

PL: Okay, well this is ‘Q-Excel’, so this is a standard site I suppose and here they have different categories of auctions. Do you want to have a go?

A: Yeah.

PL: Shall we try one out?

A: Yeah. Could we try the travel one.

PL: Yeah, yeah.

A: Oh you’ve got a fast mouse.

PL: Oh that’s interesting, auctioning of...

A:   of air tickets, I think they do and 

PL: Right here we are. Oh, okay so these are the featured ones that they’re featuring, but there’s also flights here  it looks like they’ve got a whole lot of auctions going on and that you can search, that you can put a destination in. Shall we try that?

A: Okay. So a destination would  okay, yeah okay.

PL: Just click on here. Where do you want to go?

A: Amsterdam, cos I’m familiar with the price to there so  can we continue?

PL: Yeah, oh right. No, there aren’t any. So there are no flights to Amsterdam.

A: Okay. So can we try another one? Go back?

PL: Yeah. Oh, that’s interesting, it’s lost the search  oh, here we go 

A: Erm  Chicago 

PL: Oh, I’m going to Chicago in March.

A: What for work or ?

PL: Mmm. Now that’s interesting isn’t it, that’s slightly frustrating because you can’t get to what is actually being 

A: I think this is often the case. I mean a lot of airlines have these offers on the Net that are really terribly cheap, but it’s best if you don’t have any preferences, if you don’t even know where you’re going and you just go where the offer takes you... so many it’s  if we wouldn’t be as picky as we are now, actually wanting to go somewhere  we may be able to 

PL: Right. So that would mean that it would have a really particular kind of use.
 A: Yeah, which is really what an auction is, isn’t it you 

PL: Oh, here we are. We seem to have got some responses. These must be presumably the responses to the Chicago...

A: Yeah.

PL:   one. So these are as close as they can get. So this is now ‘Shop and Drive’ and ‘Iceland Air’ and they’ve got a bid for 2 hundred and 80 pounds.

A: 2 tickets to Amsterdam, Easyjet, 50 pounds 

PL: Oh, look so we did get them, they must have been underneath. So there we are, yes.

A: That’s cheap.

PL: Is that good?

A: Mmm. If they are returns, yeah.

PL: But they are...

A: ... all particular times 

PL: Yeah, right. So again you’re quite restricted, it’s not 

A: So do you think these are individuals who put them on ?

PL: Well shall we check, we can go and have a look at them, get the details  there we are, there’s no image available  so that’s presumably someone who has bought the tickets and is now trying to sell them on. There you are, the auction ends...

A: On the 14th.

PL: Oh, it’s already finished - oh, no it hasn’t, it’s the 11th - oh no, the 14th of the 10th...

A: Yeah, that’s October  Thursday 

PL: Oh, yeah you’re right. So we can set a reserved price on this one and a date  oh, that’s general information about reserve prices  so the reserve price must be here somewhere  oh here we are... 2 tickets at Easyjet  so they’re specific times, and it doesn’t tell us what the price is, that’s interesting. So you don’t know what the reserve price is, what’s the minimum they’ll accept for that.

A: Oh, this is minimum the er...

PL: The reserve price, yeah...

A: Yeah, of course, yeah, yeah, yeah.

PL: And you can increase your bid here. Ah, that’s the top. So it’s almost reached - that must be... the bid limit must be the reserve price so they’ve almost got what they want there.

A: Yeah.

PL: Okay, so these are not companies offering... there’s a Website for that I think - lastminute.com...

A: Yeah, I’ve heard of that 

PL: Shall we try that one, see what that’s like...?  A: Yeah, yeah.

PL: Can’t do it without the mouse  and the ones to America were interesting because they weren’t scheduled airline tickets they were package deals where you go to a shopping mall in 

A: And get a car probably.

PL: So they have flights here... oh okay, there it is, any time  what do you think of the Websites compared to general websites?

A: These ones that we’ve been looking at  ? Erm... much the same...

PL: Yeah, they’re using fairly standard formats aren’t they?

A: Yeah. I think they’re alright. It’s usually quite straightforward to know where to go and what to click  80 pounds 

PL: That’s pretty good 

A: Very cheap, yeah... so 

PL: More information... shall we find out about that one... it doesn’t say which one it is  so you’ve got travel between those dates presumably, so you’ve got be back before the Christmas rush.

A: Yeah exactly, yeah.

PL: So it won’t tell you which one it is, but it’s one of these basically... probably KLM isn’t it...

A: Could be, yeah.

PL: On advance booking airlines often have a certain proportion of their tickets that they sell off very cheaply - the first 20 or 30 flights on an international flight, I mean presumably these are those tickets 

A: I suppose so yeah 

PL:   put through another route as it were  I mean, how much do you think  because this is a slightly idiosyncratic side of consumption isn’t it, it’s like buying those odd things like checking second hand prices that you’ve talked about or  I mean, how mainstream do you think it could go, electronic commerce, cos we’re talking about things that are slightly fun and on the edges of consumption 

A: Well, yeah I think if I could order my shopping, and apparently I can with some supermarkets, if I can order my shopping on the Internet and have it delivered I think that will definitely work, I think people will do that  and things like that yeah.

PL: I’ve got one of those on here, I’ve got Tesco’s... so let’s have a look at that 

A: I’ve never seen these so let’s...

PL: So this is Tesco’s. It’s a bit of a fussy site there  I’ll have to get Nico to upgrade my browser  okay so we can preview it here... so you’d be given a customer ID and a password before you can enter the site and shop on-line, so this’ll just give us an idea. So this is information about the service... you can shop off-line or on-line. See if they’ve got a demo they can show us - ooh! Oh, I’ve gone to their... cos this is the other thing that’s developing with retailers that are going on-line, they’re all offering freeserve-type ISP’s so I’ve clicked onto Tesco Net. So it seems that each major player that wants to get into e-commerce is offering a free Internet Service Provider at the moment.

A: God, that’s amazing...

PL: Have you tried one of those?

A: No.

PL: It doesn’t look like they’re going to let us preview using their site... oh I see, it just keeps you back. So you can’t actually try it out unless you have a 

A: An ID...

PL: A password, an ID yeah. Let’s just try  Just try Sainsbury’s  ooh it doesn’t like that  Yeah, okay so this is their order line.

A: So you can do your shopping and have it delivered or ?  PL: Yes that’s right.

A: Gosh.

PL: Have to see if it’s available... I’ll just put mine in to see... I don’t think it is available  no they’re not delivering in North London ( ) Oh well I can’t demonstrate how these work to you. But basically they give you lists of items in different categories and you select the items you want and you fill a shopping basket and then when that’s full of the items you want you can go into the payment routine and you can store the shopping basket for next time of you want to use it for familiar items...

A: Oh, handy, yeah.

PL: And then when you pay they give you a choice of dates for delivery and you can select your delivery date and time and then it comes in.

A: I suppose it’s alright for things that you know are always going to be the same like tins of baked beans, but if it’s fruit or veg and things I don’t want other people to choose that for me I want to be able to...

PL: Do you prefer to choose ?  A: Well yeah I want to get the right ones.

PL: They have what they call expert shoppers who go along and do this...

A: Okay, yeah but still they’re still employed by Sainsbury’s I suppose...

PL: Or Tesco’s or whoever. I mean the way they’re doing it at the moment is based on a model of existing stores so you get someone who actually goes round with a trolley and buys your shop for you.
 A: Really?  PL: Mmm, because it’s overlaid on the existing infrastructure.

A: Yeah, yeah exactly.

PL: But in the future, presumably, they’ll develop warehousing techniques and distribution techniques so it’ll be automated selection for goods. At the moment I don’t think it’s changing how the firms operate terrifically. But in the future there’s this idea that...

A: Yeah that shops are going to disappear and yeah...

PL: I mean do you think there are any other impacts that e-commerce might have if it were to spread on the retail industry?  A: I suppose it’d be a shame if... I mean the nice thing about shopping is seeing the products and choosing them because you like the look of them. I mean I used to go shopping with a shopping list but not any more because I know that when I see that I like the look of that’s when it’s nice to have them but that’s a shame if that changes, I think a list on a computer screen doesn’t look quite the same...

PL: Right - what? Even for supermarket shopping?  A: Yes, supermarket shopping yeah. Because I think supermarkets in England have a wonderful range of products and usually quite good quality and I so think that depending on the time of year the quality of what you’re looking at does vary, it does vary I mean I couldn’t predict before I go in exactly what I’m going to buy.
 PL: Right, right. And do you think there are some things that really lend themselves to being sold in this way and that other products are less?

A:  Yeah, I think things that you know which there’s no... like CDs, if I can see the title of the CD and the performing artist then I know exactly what I’m going to get.

PL: So standardisation of the product...?  A: Yeah I suppose that’s quite important. And Amazon.com is something I use and that’s wonderful cos I don’t need to see a book before I buy it whereas with food I often want to see it before I buy it.

PL: Let’s have a look at that CD site. Okay, so this CD Now. And you haven’t tried this one?  A: No, I haven’t tries this one, can I try it?

PL: Yeah.

A: Okay, so let’s go to a category...

PL: It’s quite a busy site isn’t it?

A: Yeah, I find that quite a problem often. Apparently there’s software that turns the ads off on a site.

PL: Yeah that’s right there’s quite a lot of controversy about that, about whether to go down that route or not. That’s one of the issues I suppose, how much control they want to give to us as the users of these sites to control the environment that we’re in, to switch off information or whatever. I mean you’ve just got the basic facilities of the browser at the moment so you can switch off the graphics, but if you wanted to get rid of banner ads it’s something that’s not there yet but people are thinking about it. Would you like that?

A: I would yeah, yeah. And often I’m not... I can’t remember ever being tempted into a site that was advertised on there.

PL: On a banner ad  right. So they’re just noise for you.

A: Yeah, exactly, they make it hard to navigate through.

PL: Right, now here they’re showing you the new releases and like in the  when we looked at the auctions they showed us their preferred auctions, do you remember they... before we did the searching...

A: Yeah, yeah.

PL: That’s quite a common thing in sites that they give you a set of choices. How do you feel about that I mean is that... there’s one school of thought that says that’s what they should really develop, the ability to offer, to structure your service for you...

A: Mmm... I think it depends. When you visit a site just to... I would do this because I know I want to see the latest things, I haven’t got a specific thing I’m looking for at this precise moment so the obvious thing to go for is what’s latest. I think if I would be looking for a particular title then yeah, then I would yeah...

PL: But then you could use the search engine.

A: Yeah, I think you need  if they give you the choice then 

PL: Have you heard of the development around of the use of (A ) software..

A: Sorry, what ?

PL: A( ) software or datamining developments in computing in e-commerce?

A: No.

PL: Well datamining, you know the store cards that we all use... the data is now being stored and the idea is to link it with the websites, this what companies are now working on. So when you enter you can have a personalised ID of some kind which will link your purchase data to your on-line behaviour so that they can structure offers to you in a much more direct way - at the moment this is just like new releases. But they could base on your past purchase behaviour and they could structure what offers you got.

A: Yeah. I don’t like that idea at all.

PL: Why not?

A: Well because I want to be, I want to have all the opportunity I don’t want them to force-feed me with anything on the basis of what I did in the past I mean it sounds like it’s a... there’s a regression, a narrowing down of what’s on offer which I don’t like the idea of at all.

PL: Well I think that’s right, I mean I think there’s this tension in a way between the culture of the Net, I mean in a sense you’re familiar with the Net as a general terminology and then you come to consumption you bring those assumptions to it. But a lot of people coming onto the Net in more recent times don’t necessarily see it as this wonderful anarchic service, they see it as much more practical, and for them I suppose a sort of service that’s structured around narrowing the choices and giving them options that they can work with rather than opening up choice would be a preferred  but not for you?

A: I would think I would have a very strong feeling not to choose any choices that people suggest to me, I don’t know why, yeah.

PL: So that would be too much for you, that would be a push... if they said... if they came up with 

A: Yeah, if they said, ‘This is what you like.’ as it were.

PL: What about if they kept it in the background so it looked like you were still using the site, but it was still based on...

A: Yeah, yes I wouldn’t want to know then...

PL: Yeah. Well this has a number of implications, so for example they could make individual based offers so that the prices of goods wouldn’t be public any more in a sense, they would be based on their specific purchasing history you had with the company...

A: So if I had made a stupid mistake and bought a ticket for too much in the past I’m going to keep on doing that...?  PL: Well that might be the sort of thing.

A: yeah.

PL: I mean that’s a cynical reading. You could say that if you’d been a person who sort hard for a bargain they’d make sure they gave you a bargain in the future. I mean what do you think about that kind of ?

A: No, I think it’s not really fair.

PL: Why not?

A: Well because I think it’s important that everyone has the same chance to get good deals and your past history of success I that field shouldn’t affect...

PL: Right. Why is it important?

A: Well because some people are going to end up paying a lot more than others.

PL: But that’s being said that that’s one of the directions the market might go in with this sort of technology. I mean if they can use it to target customers and target their preferences and their behaviours then they’ll be able to do that. They’ll be able to pitch an offer and that will be a differential offer depending on the preferences and the behaviours of the people involved.

A: Well if it’s related to the effort you put in, I suppose if there’s a positive correlation between the 

PL: Okay. So that would be like a service concept that if you weren’t prepared to make the effort then you lose out...

A: Then you pay more, yeah. It’s like if you buy air tickets  if you just go to the airport on the day you’ll probably end up paying 10 times as much as somebody who searched  so I suppose if there’s a reasonable link between the two but it sounds like there’s not going to be, it sounds like it’s going to be hit and miss whether you’re going to be in the crew that started off with good deals, cos that’s very important then. If you start this process on the right side of the distribution then you’re going to be lucky and those are the offers you’re going to get.

PL: Well I mean that’s right... that’s in terms of how good the deals are but there’ll be other things like, if shown a sort of recurrent preference for particular kinds of products they could make sure that if an offer come up on the product then you heard about that. That would be like direct marketing it would make sure you heard about the offers that were most relevant to you. I mean that’s... the thing is there are going to be a whole range of uses of these kinds of technologies.

A: Yeah, yeah, that sounds like a sensible thing but if they  is there really going to be that much variation across people, I mean isn’t everybody interested in cheap er good offers. I mean I suppose it depends on which sorts of things you buy but if you were interested in CDs you’re going to be interested in cheap ones. So who are the people who are going to buy 

PL: Yes, that’s right. Well that’s for a clearly standardised product that’s globally standardised and also we know like we’ve got a public of what the price is now and we know what a bargain would be. I mean I think this will go hand in hand with more complex products that are more difficult to evaluate and less standardised. They can develop a large product range that will give them the variation they need as it were to work with. You know at the moment a company will have a particular brand of electronics that’s actually maybe made by a mainstream corporation but is given a brand name that is only sold by that company and therefore they can claim exclusive prices and so on. But the underlying components are actually made by a company that makes other kinds of electronics. And so the consumer there can’t check the price, can’t check the quality in that sense. I mean that’s one way it could go that they could proliferate products’ categories and choices and use direct marketing in this sort of way so it would not be clear any more what the price for a given product is.

A: Scary. Yeah.

PL: But a possibility with this technology. I mean have you heard anything about these kinds of developments?

A: No.

PL: Really. Now that’s interesting. So the idea of e-commerce has hit... is around but not this kind of...

A: Not these kind of implications, no I haven’t er  I mean is it written about in the newspapers and 

PL: Not much.

A: I mean I must admit I never read the on-line section of the Guardian I always skip it.

PL: Well even there I don’t think  Alright let me throw another thing at you which is alternative websites. I mean there are other products we could look at so there’s Internet banking, what do you think about that?

A: Yeah I think that’s a very good idea. I think England needs it because the banking system is so terrible here. I think it would really greatly improve the service. Is it possible already for English Banks?

PL: Yes, you can bank on-line. This is Smile, that’s the Co-operative bank’s on-line service, that’s not quite ready yet but it’s going to open for business at the end of October.

A: Ooh, wow! So that means for customers or only for business customers?

PL: No for ordinary customers, for the consumer. Business to business e-commerce is much more developed in a sense than business to consumer.

A: Yeah. That’s something I would definitely use if it would be a good service I mean if it save me having to walk to the bank with cheques and send off things.

PL: Yeah. Well this is a new site, it’s not up and running yet but you can see what it’s going to offer.

A: And do all the main banks have 

PL: They’re developing - they’ve either got them or they are developing them now. And there’s some - again about this price differentiation thing - I mean there’s some issues here because the kinds of customers they’re going to get at the moment who are going to bank on-line are clearly preferred customers so they’re offering quite good deals like interest rate deals and low service cost deals and so on again to attract those customers into the companies.

A: Yeah, yeah. It’s a bit selective which is a shame.

PL: Yeah that’s right. Now what about  ah here we are 

A: Oh, so these are the alternative...?

PL: Yeah, right. So this one’s Campaign Against Cruelty to Animals and it’s an information site obviously. ‘The Animal-Free Shopper’ - so these are the top ten books they recommend for people to read... videos, Indie chart  and I mean what do you think of this site, the look and feel...?

A: Yeah, it looks alright. It’s a very fast mouse. Yeah, I’m not familiar with this at all.

PL: No, have you heard about this, there’s another one, the MacLibel website campaign against MacDonalds...?  A: Against MacDonalds?

PL: Actually, let’s see what links they’ve got to other campaigns  

A: So what is the MacDonalds one?

PL: Well the MacDonalds is a campaign that’s been against MacDonalds... this doesn’t look like they’ve got very good links to other  they’ve got lists of books and  it’s a bit listy isn’t it?

A: Yeah, yeah that’s true. But I don’t really mind that so much I always find it much easier to read a long article on the Internet than in a newspaper because you can’t see the end when you start, so you just read. I’m awful when I see something goes across 2 pages in a newspaper and it’s not really what I want to read then I skip to the next page, so in a way that works quite well.

PL: There are some links there I think - mainly about vegans. Oh well here’s a Mad Cow Disease let’s look at that one shall we?

A: Yeah, Mad Cow Disease home page.

PL: One of the things about the development of the Internet, there were arguments about campaigning and democratisation that in one sense there are 2 pictures you can build up as the Internet becomes more and more involved in commerce: one is that it’s like going to lead to a more informed, more critical consumers cos they’ll have access to massive amounts of information, they’ll be able to find the best prices and so they’ll push market efficiency and you’ll get improvements in prices and quality accordingly; another one is that this is another more sophisticated tool for advertising manipulation and on the side of the product side rather than the consumer side. I mean what do you think about argument, thinking about the kinds of sites we’ve been looking at and the kinds of services that are developing?

A: Well I think both arguments seem to be valid, but if I have to take the increase in advertising and being influenced by sources I don’t want to be influenced by I would happily take that f I could get all the information I could get on the Internet. So yeah I think you’re first point is clearly a plus and your second point is a minus but if there’s no other way round it then I’m happy to take all the advertisement if it gives me access to the information cos I think it is very important. And I do find I use it for that kind of thing just to find obscure information that would take me days in a library or book shop... to find otherwise.

PL: This is amazing... 

A: This is good though 

PL: How beef is made, ( ) research. In a sense this is more like a traditional Internet site in that it links into  it’s very much an information base, there’s not many visuals and it’s clearly hooking into the old Internet culture idea, whereas the commerce sites, they were a lot different weren’t they, they have few links outside  I mean clearly they want you to stay on the site once they’ve got you there.

A: Yeah that’s true.

PL: Interesting.

A: Of course it has to stop somewhere, it’s just a hierarchy. The links that you find here must at some point lead to information they can’t keep referring you to other sites. It’s just an extra level that the larger guides like supermarkets don’t use, they re the end level right away and so they provide all the information themselves.

PL: Yes. Any other impressions or thoughts about ?  A: Well I ... no I just realised that I don’t really think about it much. I use it a lot but in a very pragmatic way... I mean some of the questions that you asked, I never thought about it, what the impacts was going to be on our lives, or could be...

PL: Well thanks.

A: Is that it?

PL: That’s it. Great.

Ut44

UT44; 13/10/99; AB; HI IT; Single FEMALE

PL: Interviewer
F: Interviewee


PL: Well this project’s about e-commerce and we’re interviewing  a lot of people and we’re starting the interviews off by asking people to tell us what experience of computing they have.

F: Computing in general ?

PL: Yeah, computing in general and then the Internet and then maybe e-commerce if you’ve done it.

F: Right, so that’s your question is it?

PL: Yeah, that’s my opener.

F: Right, okay I didn’t have any  basically I use computers all the time now, I spend my whole life in front of them and I do a lot of analysis on the computers, I programme in Visual Basic in order to run experiments... statistical analysis using Minitab and spend a lot of my time programming visual basic in order to just run experiments and I do all the usual word processing stuff, and I use the Web to look up things and I use email a lot to talk to all my friends. But I was going to say, because of the age that I am I didn’t learn anything at all about computers at school and we had a ‘Z-X-Spectrum’(????) at home that my brother used to play with and I watched. And I seem to remember we were introduced to them vaguely at University during my undergraduate degree, but I hand-wrote all my essays and I never had anything to do with computers at all during that period. And I had an old typewriter from the 1950’s that I started to teach myself to type on. And then why I did my Ph.D, I’m not sure how, but I just fell into it so  I’m not quite sure what happened in between but I fell into it as if it was an old shoe and I didn’t seem to have any problem. I used an Acorn Archimedes which nobody else was using so it was a completely different system with a completely different interface to PC’s and to Mac’s, so it didn’t really matter that I wasn’t familiar with it because most people weren’t familiar with it, so it wasn’t like I was suddenly a dunce when everyone else knew how to use these things cos it was different.

PL: The Acorn was for your own use, right? Was that your own machine?

F: The whole project was run  I had a laptop and I had a PC. And because the whole project was presenting computer ( ) to General Practitioners I had to know how to use the laptop in order to take it round and my supervisor  the programme I had to be familiar with cos I had to tweak it, so it was like I was thrown into the deep end then, but it wasn’t too frightening. Erm, but now I constantly feel as if I’m swimming in something  you know I try not to  I don’t know anything about this hardware, my machine keeps crashing, I’ve had the blue screen of death twice in the last 6 months.

PL: So what machine is this now?

F: It’s just a PC - don’t ask me any more than that. (laughs) This is it you see, on one level I’m doing things that other people are impressed by and think are complicated, like programming Visual Basic, and on the other level I haven’t got a clue about anything and I wouldn’t even pretend to. Even when you send attachments to people and you have to set them up right so they can be read, there’s nothing to guide you anywhere is there. I just find the whole thing  you tread water and then occasionally you swim and as long as you don’t stop treading water you’ll be alright  in terms of the e-commerce bit, every time I erm  the Internet, people seem to be able to make money through the Internet and I’m constantly getting these rubbishy emails from people saying, ‘Make a billion bucks’, which I always delete immediately - not cos I don’t want a million bucks obviously, but because I don’t believe them.

PL: What do you think they are? Why don’t you believe them?

F: Well I don’t believe them for the same reason that I don’t believe that free stuff comes from Reader’s Digest through the door, I can’t understand how they work. I’m sure somebody somewhere’s making money out of it but I can’t see that I’m really going to get anything out of it so I don’t want to support it whatever it is. But I’m quite happy to support the ones that are to do with campaigning, but the ones to do with money I don’t want to support cos I don’t know what they’re doing. If somebody’s making money then it means somebody’s losing money somewhere and I don’t know who’s losing money.

PL: Yeah sure sure. well I think some of those are the equivalent of the old chain letters so the money cascades but there’s a lot of people who get nothing and that supports the whole tree as it were, it just keeps branching out... yes I think that’s right...

F: And nobody gets particularly hurt...?

PL: No, in the end a lot of people lose a small amount of money at the bottom of the tree as it were.

F: Taking from the many and giving to the few - the opposite of the Robin Hood thing.

PL: But they’re exceptions I suppose, they come up occasionally.

F: Well they come up in flurries, but  half the time they tell you visit their sites on the Web and when you’re looking at things on the Web, whenever I look in a key word in order to find something there’s always these things that say well Amazon have got books on this topic, and it never is on this topic for a start and you think well how can they have books on this topic  can’t think of examples, but it wouldn’t be something that I’d be wanting to buy a book of.

PL: This’d be when you’re using a search engine right?

F: Yeah.

PL: And whatever you put in the search they say, ‘Oh you can buy books on this in Amazon’.

F: Yeah and I’m sure it didn’t used to.

PL: No, it’s a relatively new thing. I mean, what do you think of that?

F: It reminds that Amazon exists each time but I never want to buy those books at that particular time. It’s making me think now well  there are books that I want to buy and I detest Waterstones for all the obvious reasons, and I feel maybe Amazon’s a bit better.

PL: Sure. Is that just cos you don’t know about them?

F: Yeah, probably.

PL: Cos Amazon’s different from Waterstones it’s an Internet only company, it doesn’t have any physical stores.

F: Yeah and so it’s not obvious that they’re exploiting their employees and it’s not obvious that they’re putting all the other business out of the market in the local area  they probably are putting small book-shops out of the market, and they probably are exploiting their employees but it’s not so blatant.

PL: Well that’s an issue maybe we’ll get onto - I mean we could talk about it now. One  is that a possible effect of business being conducted over the Internet, that it will affect local traders.

F: Yeah, I suppose it must do. The thing is this is happening anyway at the moment whatever happens  as far as I can remember there have always been big companies starting up and closing down small companies ( ). So it is logical that that’s going to happen. And I suppose it’s logical that it’s going to put a lot of people out of work as well.

PL: Won’t it create jobs as well?

F: It’ll create a smaller number of jobs  why would it create ?

PL: Do you think that basically that - what, because it’s more efficient?

F: Yeah it is. Well it’s not even  if you think of companies that do tele-sales, I mean they employ more people than an Internet thing would.

PL: Why?

F: Because the Internet thing is all pre-programmed and you need one person employed who probably gets a thousand quid a day to write a programme that takes 5 days to write in order to collect however many sales. And they probably can employ one person to maintain the whole system. And then it’ll just be employing a few people in a warehouse packing up.

PL: Yeah sure, I mean Amazon is a warehouse-based company. But Amazon is not typical of companies that are on the Internet I mean it’s the most well known example. But if you look in an area like groceries, the main supermarkets are going on-line and they’re doing it out of their physical stores at the moment, they don’t have specialist warehouses for e-commerce.

F: And that means presumably that somebody has this printed out list and just goes round the shop picking everything up.

PL: Yeah yeah absolutely. I mean eventually I think they’ll move to a warehousing system, but at the moment the emphasis is very much on locating it in your local store. When you go on-line they direct you to your local store and you get the catalogue of goods that’s in that store.

F: Well that doesn’t seem quite so bad I have to say  the whole thing doesn’t seem bad at all but that 

PL: Sure, but you’ve got these concerns about it.

F: Well I’ve got concerns about  the type of companies who are doing this thing are scum anyway and that’s why I’m concerned about it, I’m wary of these companies. But I can see the beneficial effects of the fact they’ve gone on-line means that when you’ve got a mum at home with 3 kids it means she doesn’t have to drag them round the supermarket, she’s got much more free time, she can arrange to have the shopping delivered when her partner’s in - she doesn’t even need to be in. It’s giving people a lot of time back that they wouldn’t normally have and making the whole thing much more egalitarian, I think.

PL: Potentially, yeah.

F: Potentially (laughs).

PL: So do you think it will affect  I mean thinking about the gendering of the shopping duties within the household  is that a Utopian idea that you’ve just expressed ?

F: Well that’s actually an idea that’s based on my brother and sister-in-law, that’s what... whereas before my sister-in-law basically works as a lecturer, does research and looks after the kids, and my brother won’t take time off work in order to look after the kids. And so she’s able to do more things like arrange to have the shopping delivered when she isn’t in.

PL: I think that’s right, that rather than creating egalitarian lifestyles it’s used to bypass some of the problems and makes it more equal.

F: And I suppose it might mean that more people do a weekly shop. It could mean that people that don’t normally do the shop are doing the shop.

PL: Well there’s not any evidence of that but there is the potential.

F: I must say that I don’t shop in shops like that anyway, I go to my local Turkish shop which is never in million years going to be going onto the Internet.

PL: No, no. Do you think that’s an issue as well - who’s going on and who’s going to be excluded from this?

F: Yeah, that’s definitely an issue.

PL: Why shouldn’t a local shop go on the Internet, potentially anyone can go on the Internet.

F: Yeah they can... I suppose they could, and they could deliver it. And I know some of the Turkish shops have things where you ring them and they bring your shopping to your door. I was just thinking it wouldn’t be worth their while but it might be worth their while, even if they only got one email every 

PL: Yeah yeah, if they could use existing structures and staff to support it and if they deliver anyway.

F: But with the local shops the whole thing is that you go in and you have a chat with them each time. I suppose you could have that chat on your doorstep if they delivered 

PL: You might not want to have that chat I suppose.

F: Well why did you arrange to have your shopping delivered then?

PL: Well for convenience. But you’re right that there’s an issue about what shopping is and what kind of activity that is.

F: Yeah absolutely and in the local Turkish shops that’s one of the joys about going is that they know who you are and they give you money off if you haven’t got the right change and things like that - which of course you’re not going to get if you’re paying by credit card on the Internet.

PL: Sure, sure. But one of the attractions of the Internet for the large companies is that they want to bring back some of that service idea.

F: What service idea?

PL: Well the idea that you know, in the small local shop you build up the relationship between the customer and the retailer that’s a developed one. Whereas in the supermarket it’s a modern process, a machine process. I mean there’s a feeling amongst the supermarkets that they need to adapt, particularly for the social class customers and offer more service, more personalised services. And they see the Internet as a way of doing that.

F: Well I think that’s right actually, because it does. The fact that they deliver the groceries to your door is harking back to some sort of age-old ideal.

PL: That’s right. And do you know about direct marketing and the use of datamining techniques, have you heard about this?

F: No. What are they doing?

PL: Well you know when you swipe  if you shop in a supermarket they have these loyalty cards, and they swipe them. And the supermarkets can store that data so they know what individuals are buying over a long period of time and they can match that data if you go on-line to your on-line behaviour and start making more personalised offers to you. So say that at any one time a supermarket will have 2000 goods on offer, now the problem is who do you offer them to on-line, cos in a supermarket people can go round and see the offers but on-line you’ve got to push them at them. And so they’ll try and use all the things they know about you, you’re buying behaviour - the kind of things you’ve bought in the past, the kinds of goods you’re interested in to select the particular offers.

F: And will they make the offers on the basis of what you ( )?

PL: That’s what they’re aiming to do.

F: Yeah well that sounds quite good, because then you’ll be saving by buying things... I mean a lot of these offers you keep buying them because they’re there not because you want the product - that does sound good.

PL: Is there an issue about supermarkets knowing that much about you as it were, supermarkets gathering data about individuals.

F: Well all they’re doing is just watching your behaviour I don’t see that’s... just noticing what you’re putting in your basket.

PL: Sure sure. But at the moment there’s  when you shop in a supermarket, if you don’t use a store card, it’s anonymous, you can’t be identified. I mean they can look at people and analyse their shopping but that’s only going to show them generic things about shopping and shops. 

F: But it makes it into much more of a realistic social interaction where people see you doing something and assume that’s to do with you - and it is to do with you cos you keep doing it.

PL: Yeah, but are you happy that they analyse that? You say it’s public behaviour so it’s fair...

F: Yeah, obviously it’s bound to be wrong a lot of the time because you buy things for other people and you have a particular flurry or whatever  I’m vegetarian but I might buy meat for someone one day and then I’d keep getting meat offers 

PL: Oh the analytic problems are non-trivial.

F: But I find that... these are the interesting things about social interaction, so I don’t really find it a problem. I mean you’ve got all this rubbish being pushed at you all the time from wherever. Whenever I seem to go on-line all these gambling things come up and I don’t know if they’ve decided that’s part of my personality. I suppose I might actually find that offensive if I thought they were pushing that on the basis of me, but if they’re pushing it at everyone  and the pornography always comes up.

PL: Do you know about cookies?

F: No, what’s cookies?

PL: Oh, okay. Well when you visit a site, quite commonly they’ll put a piece of code onto your hard-disk which would be a record of what you’ve done at that site  you didn’t know this was happening?

F: No, no.

PL: If you go into your  do you use Netscape?

F: Well because it’s been crashing recently I haven’t got it on at the moment.

PL: Right well in your Netscape directory you’ll find a directory called cookies and you’ll see that you’ll have a lot of different cookies.

F: And that just recalls what sites I’ve used?

PL: Yeah, and what selections you made on-site. Have you ever noticed that when you go back to a site you can find that the previous things that you’ve followed are in a different colour?

F: Yeah.

PL: They’re getting that information from your hard-disk on the basis of the last time you came. So although they’re not identifying you they can build up a profile of your behaviour.

F: Who’s they?

PL: The Website.

F: So the Website can access my hard-disk?

PL: Yeah, and write to it.

F: How dare they!

PL: You didn’t know about this?

F: No. I knew that  I thought that was my hard-disk doping that if you know what I mean, I didn’t think it was the Website doing it. I thought my hard-disk was knowing where it had been.

PL: Oh it’s an interaction between your browser and the Website that you’re visiting but the prompting for it has to come from the Website and they access  the information’s left on your hard-disk and they access it next time 

F: But it’s the way you’re phrasing it, you could phrase that completely differently.

PL: Well go on then phrase it differently.

F: Well yeah, my hard-disk is making a note of where it’s been and some of the places where it’s been has 

PL: Selections that can be made and it keeps a record of them.

F: Yeah exactly. But your phrasing it as though somebody’s shitting in my machine.

PL: Well only because you didn’t know about it and you seemed a bit surprised to hear about it.

F: Well no, no. Only because I know it changes colour and I know that that means I’ve been there before and I know that sometimes when you’re typing in an address it fills in the rest of it and you can scroll down and you can see all the old addresses. I’ve always accredited that to my machine and the Netscape software rather than to the place that I’ve visited.

PL: Well it’s an interaction between the two, yeah absolutely. And with Netscape the browser makes it possible, so to that extent  but you’re not saying when a place is left and when it isn’t foe example, it’s not like you have much control over it.

F: No, I haven’t got any control. But I haven’t got control over most of the software that I’m using on the machine.

PL: Well that’s what I’m trying to get at.

F: And it doesn’t matter whether that’s on the Internet 

PL: It doesn’t matter where it’s located...?

F: No. I mean all the things that Word does, which is nothing to do with the Internet, it’s hard to get in and actually change them isn’t it?

PL: Yeah, yeah. But Word is a standardised programme 

F: Yeah it is, it is standardised. And the only difference is that Netscape is connecting you to 

PL: Well, to anywhere in the world.

F: Exactly. So does Explorer do that too?

PL: Well they all have different versions of this type of tracking software.

F: I mean the thing that I would see as more threatening is not the fact that the other machine is writing to my machine - as you put it - it’s the fact that it can read that I’ve been to it before 

PL: Well it can.

F: And clearly it can, yeah. So why are they called cookies then?

PL: I don’t know, that’s a good question, I don’t know what the origin of the term is. There are other types of programme that have been developed. For instance there’s a notice of intelligence agent software - do you know about this?

F: No, except that rings a bell so I’ve obviously heard that phrase.

PL: Okay, well this takes different forms. But let’s say that you enter a site that has a lot of data already about you from analysing store card data or something like that, it can use intelligent software that basically begins to map you on the basis of your preferences, the choices you’ve made, it’s that kind of software. Now again, you as the customer don’t have much control over that 
 F: Except through your behaviour.

PL: Yeah, yeah - obviously you can disrupt it or subvert it through your own behaviour. But if you want the benefits of it I suppose, you can’t really do that.

F: Yeah, that’s all interesting  again I see that as people trying to model or simulate some kind of learnt  not learnt stereotypes but learnt types.

PL: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

F: And I don’t really have a problem with that because as it is at the moment you can just ignore it, at least I think I can ignore it - you’re probably going to tell me I haven’t really been able to ignore it 

PL: (laughs)

F: I’m just trying to think what the consequences are. The consequences are simply going to be that it keeps trying to guide me somewhere I don’t want to go isn’t it?

PL: Well you might want to go there  I mean it’s a trade off  

F: I suppose what I find quite good is that it would be more accurate than somebody’s prejudiced preconceptions on the basis of one or two interactions with you suggesting what you might want to do.

PL: Right, right - it might be preferable to a person 

F: Yes, frankly. If it really is a statistical analysis of people’s behaviour based on a whole load of variables, then it can see how noisy the data is, it’s not coming up with false correlations 

PL: Yeah that’s the intention anyway. Alright, well let’s have look at some sites and we can return to some of these issues later.

F: You see why isn’t that all coming up in different colours, or have you never been to any of those?

PL: Well you can delete cookies 
 F: What as you go along you can delete them or you can tell it to before hand?

PL: Well not on this browser but on the new version of Netscape you have a certain amount of control if you know about it.

F: But you obviously have done in this version?

PL: That’s right. Right where shall we go?

F: Is this the choice?

PL: Yeah - well you can anywhere you like but this is just a few places to start, well what would you like to see?

F: Can we go to Amazon, I never have 

PL: Have you ever bought anything on-line?

F: No. I looked at Tesco when I was with my sister-in-law, but the thing that I mainly want to actually buy on-line is I’m always looking up flights and train journeys and things like that where it’s do tedious to do over the phone and so difficult to find information cos it’s so  I was logging onto Am-track earlier in order to try and find stations in America  all products - what are all products?

PL: Well they don’t just sell books. Have you heard of on-line auctions?

F: I’ve heard of them.

PL: Well we’ll look at those later.

F: Okay, I’m going to look up this book I want to find  I find half the search engines useless.

PL: Why, because they come up with so much 

F: Yeah, so much extraneous stuff that’s got no relation to what I’ve typed in. Basically what I’m doing here is looking up a book I read about on cycling between Oxford and London - it’s lost the pluses again  you really know how to do this and - oh, search tips. It shouldn’t be a convention really in algebra cos really an algebra is what it is isn’t it.

PL: Well that’s interesting cos they haven’t really got away from the sort of tech-ie mentality in all this.

F: Okay, key-word search, I guess. So I’ll put it all in quotes  does it assume there’s a plus if I put more than one word in?

PL: Yeah, I don’t know what it did with the plus, probably stopped after the first word. What do you think about that in terms of the demand it’s putting on you to search, I mean you found the ‘help’ ?

F: Well if I didn’t really want it I wouldn’t be looking it up put it that way. Oh it put it in quotes  oh this is all America, you see already I’m seeing things that I think maybe I’ll have this instead. Do you know that person  do you want me to click on that?

PL: Yeah, I wouldn’t mind having a look at that. He’s a media researcher, I didn’t know about bike trips.

F: Does it tell us anything about it, do we have to click on it... it’s out of print.is it a common Polish name?

PL: Yeah it is quite common... oh it hasn’t got anything about the author just 

F: I quite like this add it to your shopping trolley - even though they call it cart, I can cope with that. That is always an issue when people write things in American-ese.

PL: Well it is an American medium 

F: Yeah absolutely. I’ll just look at this one - Cycling Abroad, where’s ‘abroad’ I wonder 

PL: So when you talk about following campaigns on the email - what do think about consumer campaigns...

F: What do you mean by consumer campaigns?

PL: Well have you about the MacLibel for example?

F: Oh yeah, I’d definitely say there was a role for the Internet in that because the whole point of those campaigns is to increase people’s awareness and it’s an extremely good way of getting a lot of complicated information to people quite quickly and relatively easily... it looks like they haven’t got it and I know it exists. Can I look up another book?

PL: Yeah, yeah. What do you think of this site and the way it works?

F: Well it’s always annoying if you can’t find your thing. So basically the fact that it’s pulled out all those relevant books which are the type of books I’d be interested in because it’s about bicycling is good, though here I can see at least 2 things...

PL: Well you could search Amazon UK cos this is the American site.

F: Right, you see I didn’t even know that.

PL: They’ve got a UK site.

F: So where’s that based  oh I’ll just search for subject - I just want to do the bicycle thing again. Have you bought a lot through the Internet then?

PL: Well I’ve bought books and CD’s and groceries.

F: You get your groceries every week?

PL: No not every week but it works quite well.

F: Does it mean that you spend more money.

PL: Well what do you think I mean you’ve seen the Tesco site, it’s just lists of goods that you click on and put in your trolley. I mean do you think that would lead to buy more?

F: I think if I had more money it would, but I don’t have the money but I presume cos it’s so easy I could just cancel it all when I see how much it costs 

PL: Yeah you get a running total which you don’t get when you actually go round, so it might be a dis-incentive to spend more. And what’s the difference do you think of using that list-ie site and pushing your trolley round the supermarket?

F: Sorry, it’s come up with all these things about the life-cycle, it’s misinterpreted what I meant by cycle which is quite interesting 

PL: Yeah, I think you better out in bicycle  so about the difference 

F: Yeah that you can actually keep a better tab on it.

PL: Right, so it might make you more rational about your shopping. What about impulse buying for example?

F: Yeah certainly it should make you more careful. And also it’s so much quicker than walking up and down the isles passed all the chocolate biscuits and thing like that  you see if I had lots of money I’d just be buying all these things - except for ‘Mr. Plod and His Stolen Bicycle’ I’d probably avoid that one...

PL: Oh yeah Enid Blyton 

F: And now it’s going to the American one  so you get the feeling that they’re not particularly good for some types of thing and they’re likely to be the things I’m going for if you see what I mean. I feel it’s good for mainstream people but I’m not quite mainstream enough.

PL: That’s interesting cos wasn’t the idea that it was not for the mainstream, I mean I think you’re right that the sites are mainstream oriented 

F: Yeah it’s a bit ironic. Yeah there’s the thing it’s for spoddy blokes and was biased towards that, but as more and more people come into it then it is mainstream people because it’s being taught in schools and things like that.

PL: That’s right.

F: But even so, there’s mainstream and there’s mainstream  cor I can save 3 quid if I buy it over the Internet.

PL: That’s right, except you’d have to pay for delivery.

F: How much do you have to pay for delivery?

PL: About 3 pounds I should think.

F: How do you find out?

PL: You’d have to go to ordering.

F: Right, I won’t do that now - or shall I?

PL No. You can do other things like write an on-line review and no-ones done that yet for this book, you could be the first person  or you could look up your own books and write reviews of them 

F: Well, no somebody has done it - who’s review’s this, is that their review 

PL: Yeah I think that’s the one.

F: The thing is I have to buy this book by tomorrow which means I’ll have to go to a book-shop.

PL: Yeah through the post it’ll probably take a week or so.

F: Yeah and I can review it. If you review it do they send you a free copy?

PL: No. It’s part of this idea you were talking about about building up a community or a sociality... making contributions and other people can read it and it gives it that feel...

F: I should write I am the author and I want to write about my book.

PL: No don’t do that (laughs). Now go to the bookmarks  have you seen CD sites while we’re on this kind of site?

F: I haven’t looked at CD sites  can you listen to music - sorry where to?

PL: CD Now  yeah you can sample the music.

F: That’s very good then. This has good so much on and I find this sort of thing a bit too confusing.

PL: It is very fussy isn’t it.

F: And I have to know what sort of music my music falls into.

PL: Or there’s a general search if you had a particular artist or album...
F: You see most of these things I know what I don’t want. It’d be quite interesting if this thing that’s busy monitoring what people like you are into, it would make more sense for it not to offer you things like people like you don’t go to.

PL: Yeah I think that’s what they’re working towards but at the moment they’re generic sites, there’s not much of this programming (...)

F: Let’s have a look. Is this it  it’s confusing when it says done at the bottom there and it’s not done.

PL: Yeah. Look, there you are I think you can listen to that one cos it’s got a little...

F: Oh! And why has it got 2 little 

PL: Well it’s got ‘97 and ‘98, they must be different versions.

F: And this is vinyl it says.

PL: Oh yes, that’s vinyl and that’s CD.

F: But I’ve got a CD version from ‘96.

PL: Well it must have been re-released or something.

F: Is it going to play it - have you got a thing on your machine  can it monitor if you’ve been to the site before and listened to it to stop people continuously listening to it for free?

PL: Well if it’s loaded on here you’ll see it’s not really a problem cos the music’s not really handled by the Website and if you pick one of them... here we are...

F: It’s asking me to download it.

PL: Well save it and see what it says  I think we better put this in plug-ins... oh no, just put it Netscape generally 

F: Click any underlined track to hear a real audio sound sample. Click ( ) to hear a...

PL: Right, go on click that one  oh I know why it’s not playing it, this computer’s got no speakers (laughs). Normally I demonstrate this on the portable which has speakers, so we can’t hear it. But what you get basically is a mono snatch, you get 20 seconds of mono and it’s not done directly from the site, they send you to the real player site which is a catalogue of sounds.

F: Oh so if I went there I could hear it without doing any shopping - only 20 seconds or all of it?

PL: Only snatches, you have to buy to get the whole thing and you have to pay Real Player if you want stereo sound.

F: Real Player comes up when you load up Netscape...

PL: Well it’s one of the connected services to Netscape.

F: That’s a bit sad.

PL: Yeah well  but you can see the idea...

F: What I also see is that it’s confusing me in American money. So it’s going to charge me in American money, charge me to my Visa, Visa will charge me for changing it over 

PL: No they don’t charge you commission on your credit card - that would be a real disincentive I think. And then you’ve got postage on top.

END OF SIDE ONE.

PL: Well there are record sites in Britain I just wanted to show you this particular site.

F: But it would be really inefficient for me to buy from America if I can buy it from Britain.

PL: Okay. Let’s try another site then.

F: You know why I like the name Amazon too, it’s all the connotations that it’s got, it’s brilliant.

PL: Yeah it was well chosen wasn’t it as a name.

F: Cos it makes it sound as though it’s a) eco-friendly and b) pro-women.

PL: Neither of which it is probably (laughs).

F: No I’m sure. Presumably it’s saving paper somewhere along the line.

PL: Well not paper but space... I don’t know, trips - I mean why not 

F: They must be saving plastic bags too.

PL: Internet banking  yeah but they have to wrap it up to post it.

F: Internet banking? Ooh!

PL: Yeah this one’s not started yet but most of the mainstream banks have started and er basically...

F: What do you mean this isn’t starting yet?

PL: Oh well this service is going to start on the 28th of October so this is a preview of it.

F: And it’s going to be with the Co-Op, that’s who I’m with.  PL: Oh right so you’ll be able to do your Internet banking if you want to.
 F: What are these icons? How completely inappropriate, that’s not even a smile.

PL: Well they’re all different kinds of smiles, or supposed to be - the Mona Lisa, Marilyn Monroe, ( ), Mr. Smiley and Gnasher the dog - they might change those.

F: Yeah, they’d better. I can cope with some of them.

PL: Let’s see  obviously you could do things like go on-line, check your current account, your balance 

F: Check the interest rates... I mean obviously this makes complete sense, it’s a pain going into the bank, but at the same time there are all the issues here of security.

PL: Yeah.

F: I don’t people knowing what money I’ve got, I do mind them moving it around for me, if you see what I mean. I don’t mind people being able to access my accounts and look at them, that would be the equivalent of me dropping a statement on the floor carelessly.

PL: Okay. But you don’t want them to have any control... I don’t think they’d do that, I mean you would still have control over the account.

F: Is this asking you to open an account?

PL: Well you can’t do this now cos it’s not up, it’s just previewing the site. So you like the idea of Internet banking?

F: Yeah I think it’s a good idea.

PL: And what about security, you mentioned security - is it secure?

F: Well I think obviously it’s  I think nothing’s secure, that’s the real issue. I think with this thing, it’s like with a lot of risks you’ve got an idea of how risky it is because you can  you have personal experience or you hear of people, of statistics. But with this you don’t know how risky it is.

PL: Right, right. Don’t you think in time though that’ll 

F: Yeah, in a while we’ll know. But people being put off saying oh it’s risky is completely meaningless cos you know risk is a probability 

PL: Yeah, they mean uncertain.

F: Yeah exactly they mean uncertain, but they’re acting as though uncertain means a sure-fire thing that you’re going to lose.

PL: Yeah I know and that is a problem at the moment and there’s various attempts to reassure people about that 

F: I think because most of us don’t really know exactly what this entails, it’s all a matter of the person who tells you it’s encrypted and a matter of you believing them and trusting them that they know what they’re talking about. You know, cos you telling me it’s encrypted means nothing, it doesn’t mean it’s written in hieroglyphics, this is what is encrypted is to me.

PL: How different is that to  I mean you trust your bank to keep your money and invest it reasonably.

F: No I don’t trust it I expect them to lose it. They put 23 thousand pounds in my account a few months ago - I mean human errors are just so all prevalent that basically it’s no surprise when things go wrong.

PL: Is this going to increase that kind of error or decrease it?

F: As long as  I’ve no idea. I mean basically I would expect it to be exactly the same as all the other. The only difference is there’s not so much human input and error seems to occur because people muck up. So the logical conclusion from that is the amount’s going to decrease, but still I would expect errors to occur - not because of the machine but because of the people coming in and tampering with it and trying to put money into accounts.

PL: Right. So you think the hackers will be after this.

F: No I didn’t mean that I meant that every  you know there’s always some role for some person employed by the bank to be doing something manually and they’re the ones who’ll muck it up. The hackers thing is just too obvious, I don’t call the hackers an error, hackers is obviously just theft.

PL: How do you think this is going to go in the future  going to play out - do you think it’s going to expand I mean clearly there are new services coming on-line 

F: I would hope so but you can’t  basically there’s no point in it staying like it is. If it stayed like it is it’s still relatively elitist, it must expand - expand or shrink, and it’s obviously expanding cos more and more people are setting up things on the Net.

PL: Okay. Any other observations or ideas that spring to mind?

F: Just the age thing. I think age is a big  I mean apart from obviously different social groups having different degrees of access, I think age is for me one of the obvious factors to have involved you are in the Internet. I mean I know my mum and dad can’t cope with computers at all, my dad still uses a hand typewriter even though he’s got a computer on his desk cos he doesn’t know what to do with it. And I feel it’s great shame given how ageist this society is anyway, I feel that that’s a great shame if this is going to alienate older people even more. But now older people is people above 50 and those people are going to be alienated until they die now unless they...

PL: Well I suppose there’s digital television and that may become a platform for e-commerce 

F: Why would these people have anything to do with digital television?

PL: Well they might if they have digital television that would be a way in to 

F: Yeah but why are they going to get digital television, they’ll just stick to their land television. It’s all part of a new technology 

PL: It’s been switched on ( )

F: Is it? You see I didn’t even know that.

PL: Well you better get to it 

F: I said people above 50 I should say people above 30  (both laugh)


F: ...going to be alienated until we die. No but that is a big issue, but that is a parallel issue to people in different communities being alienated but I feel because different communities have an age range whereby younger people are learning about computing and they can pass that on, so it’s not a community thin I think it’s an age thing.

PL: Well thanks very much.


Ut45

Ut45, Single Male, 18-35, High IT R:


PL: Okay, come forward a bit, cos we’re going to work on the computer a little bit. Okay, just say your name.

R: R.

PL: Okay R. Well we’re talking to people about electronic commerce and we’re starting off by asking people to just say what kinds of experience they have generally of computing and then of the Internet, and if you’ve done some browsing or shopping on-line to talk a little about that. But just to begin with, just your general computing background I suppose...

R: Er... well the home computing boom came at exactly the right time for me because I was about, I guess about 7 or 8 when I was getting introduced to the idea of having a computer in the home that you could programme.

PL: Which computer was that?

R: The first one was Sinclair’s LX Spectrum - one of the first lines that was only 16k, and they later brought out subsequent models of that, but ours was the first one that was available I think. And I used to spend hours and hours programming that and more or less pursued that interest until the age of about 13 or 14 when I started getting more into learning how to play guitars and that sort of thing and er lost interest really in programming. Well - I don’t know, I didn’t lose interest, I started getting more into different areas of computing - Artificial Intelligence and that sort of thing, which eventually lead me to here. So I had a fairly strong basis in computing before the academic side of it kicked in.

PL: Presumably at that time there wasn’t that much provision at school 

R: Not really, I mean we were kind of cursed with BBC Micros - do you remember those? - and er,, I did GCSE in computing - I can’t remember what it was called - computer science or something, which was alright but I’d already covered most of the syllabus before we started 

PL: Yeah, yeah, it’s very basic stuff.

R: Yeah it was. It was quite good but tended to get  there were a couple of us that tended to get bored and start hacking other people’s accounts and that sort of thing. But that was my main memory of that course - the triumph of opening the file that contained all the staff’s passwords and everything. But erm  so after that I suppose the next main stage that involved computing was when I did my undergrad degree, which was in cognitive science and there was quite a strong element of AI and using computers for linguistics and syntax analysis and that sort of thing. So I got introduced to other languages like Prologue at that stage and a bit of C. And then after graduating I started doing some teaching on an ‘Introduction to Programming’ course so I guess most of my computing background has been at that level, more kind of programming side, and it’s only more recently I’ve had to get experience with software packages and use software that’s readily available.

PL: What about you as a user as well, in terms of like the Internet?

R: The Internet  I think I was probably about a year behind the main  what was it called when everyone went over  the main wave over to the Internet, I was kind of a bit behind on that, just because I remember early kind of network experiences before things like Netscape were available, which were just so incredibly bad. You could tell the idea was great but it was just, the practicalities hadn’t caught up with the concepts and it was so incredibly crap that it kind of put me off for longer I think than people that were just going in cold. And so it was later that I went back to that and realised it had progressed quite a bit. Now it’s really getting there I think. It’s still in its infancy obviously but, it’s certainly a big step up from the old days when I were a lad (laughs) 

PL: The Sinclair Spectrum, yeah  (laughs) - well it is, isn’t it, a huge movement in a very short time. And what about potential social impacts and potential impacts on individuals of this - yeah, it’s a radical technical development, but what about its actual use and social impacts?

R: I think the biggest social impact was probably email, the fact that  that’s really come from nowhere in the last - well, less than 10 years really that it’s become widespread and that has been quite revolutionary for personal communications I suppose, especially for people who are moving around a lot or are based a long way from home, have relocated erm  you see that a lot here with foreign students and so on. And I suppose you’re also starting to hear now Websites being referred to in the same way that TV programmes have been referred to, ‘Oh, did you see such-and-such?’ Erm, and that interacts with email cos you get people emailing you the Website URL recommendations  So I’d say those are probably the most salient aspects of social impact that I’ve come across.

PL: And what about e-commerce, have you tried buying something on-line 

R: I haven’t actually got a credit card which is what’s stopped me until now. Someone’s put an order in on my behalf, cos he’s got a credit card and he was ordering something from a CD Website and I managed to get hold of the CD through them which is quite good cos it’s one that, quite apart from being cheaper than they are in high street stores, it’s a lot easier to pick up CDs that have been deleted or something - shops can’t order them, but they’ve got stocks. And some of the companies that run the sites specialise in buying up stocks of deleted items and so on. And I think that’s quite good, and I think that’s the only thing  I’ve found out about things that I’ve subsequently bought, on the Net. Tickets for concerts and...

PL: So you’d go onto the site and find out about what’s available and the price and so on 

R: Yeah, but I’ve not actually transferred credit details. Not so much because I’m worried about security, I think that’s a bit of a ( ) for a lot of people - sending these numbers out into cyber space, anyone can pick them up - but they don’t think when they’re in a shop, kind of giving your details out to someone you don’t know, so I don’t really see how it would be any more open to misuse - maybe I’m wrong, I don’t know.

PL: Well it’s certainly a big debate and a big issue for people that  and what have you heard about e-commerce services? What kind of products can you get and what issues are there 

R: Erm  I haven’t actually heard a great deal about it. I mean I suppose I’ve come into contact with e-commerce services that are based around services that I tend to use sort of ‘in the real world’ that I’ve read about in a magazine. I think supermarkets are kind of doing e-shopping now, there’s like Sainsbury’s Websites where you can give them your shopping list and it’s delivered to your door - is that right?

PL: That’s right, yeah.

R: So, I’ve heard about that sort of thing, but I think it seems to be kind of in an experimental phase at the moment, I think there’s loads of new options coming up and I think some of them will kind of die out and then we’ll be left with a kind of core of services that work well in that format. I think there’s some things that people just wouldn’t want to buy in that way. I’m actually surprised that  well, I was going to say surprised that people buy food like that, but I’m not. I mean, if they’re going to buy... I was thinking of fresh food really and people tend to want to pick it up and look at it and choose the ones that’s the specific tomatoes that they want that don’t have blemishes and stuff  but you wouldn’t have that kind of control cos it’s being delivered to your door, but maybe that’s not so much of a big issue for people, if they mostly buy out of cans or packets then it doesn’t really make that much difference. I guess something like clothing would - I mean there’s plenty of potential for things to go wrong, if you think you’re buying a certain size of shoe or dress or something and it doesn’t fit, you can’t really try it on over the Net. So I guess there’ll be some lines that’ll work better than others.

PL: Yeah, although there are these developments in 3-D body scanners where you can have your body image scanned and they could visually present what the clothes would look like.

R: Yeah, I’m sure there’s ways round it 

PL: It wouldn’t be the same as looking in a mirror obviously but - you’d need a pretty big screen 

R: Yeah but I’m sure it’d be more flattering.

PL: It’s possible, I don’t know - don’t you think they’d strive for accuracy in a service like that?

R: Yeah  I guess they’d strive for accuracy but it’d be slightly distended towards the positive image. I don’t know.

PL: Well those are issues that we can talk about as well. I mean, to what extent is this a new kind of tool that empowers the consumer and gives them information and cheaper prices  or is it a new marketing tool that empowers the companies?  R: I think definitely the power is in the hands of the companies rather than the people, I don’t really buy that idea that the Internet is the key to the proletariat revolution  (laughs)

PL: Maybe not a revolution, but democratisation 

R: Yeah, I don’t know, I think it’s easy to exaggerate that. When you think of the kind of, the kind of people who have access to these tools anyway, I think it might be democratising for certain sectors of the middle classes but, it’s not entirely democratising  there’s a statistic in my head that 80 percent of the world’s population haven’t even made a phone call, so to get excited about erm 

PL: The democratising affects of the Internet 

R: Yeah, is kind of a blinkered view.

PL: Yeah but the Internet as a culture was partly  I mean 10 years ago the Internet was very linked to these kinds of Utopian ideals wasn’t it?

R: Er... yeah, yeah, absolutely. But I think it’s all to easy for those ideals to be bought up really and sold on with the kind of veneer of Utopian ideal still intact. That, if you think it’s companies like Microsoft that are running these things, it doesn’t really make for good democratisation practices. I think the ‘monopolies’ is definitely a word that springs to mind more readily.

PL: Well I suppose they would distinguish between monopolistic practices and the market and freedom for consumers, but yeah  and there’s this idea of the perfect market right where, if information is cheaper and more readily available then that will increase competition and prices will reduce, more people will be able to afford the services - I mean that’s the sort of argument that Microsoft might put forward.

R: Yeah. I tend to be very sceptical of that kind of argument, especially from that kind of source, cos it never seems to work out like that and I think there’s invariably quite a discrepancy between the party line coming from Microsoft and the actual reality behind it. Every now and again you get internal memos and things leaked to the press or leaked to some source that reveals ulterior motives that aren’t quite so noble. I think, bearing in mind they’re legally obliged to have their shareholders’ profits as their number 1 priority, it’s not really surprising if there’s that discrepancy 

PL: Well that’s interesting isn’t it, cos the talk about the idea of this as an electronic infrastructure, I mean the earlier infrastructures like roads - well roads were more underpinned by government finance in the Western democracies anyway, but I suppose railways weren’t... looking further back, they were privately funded 

R: Right from the outset? I didn’t know that.

PL: I think so, pretty well, it was private investment funds that drove the developments of the railways - capitalism late 19th century England. You know, there’s this debate about whether the infrastructure should be considered to be a public good that’s provided by and regulated by government, or whether it should be the government’s role to sweep away any barriers for the market developing these services.

R: Yeah, I have real reservations about the whole freemarket ideal. I mean I think the railway one is a good example, I mean the issue of cutting corners on the safety to increase profits and I mean the state of the railway in the UK at the moment is ridiculous - I don’t know if you use the trains much but... I don’t use them much, but I mean there’s certainly a huge difference to me - just the fact that all the lines are kind of split up into different... different companies own different sections of the lines and none of them know about what the others are doing so all the timetables remain unintegrated and service disruptions in one part can be er 

PL: Chaotic 

R: Yeah, it’s just a real mess. Somewhere in the back of my mind I’ve got some quote that I read last week about privatisation of the railway  I don’t think I can dredge it up.

PL: Okay. Well don’t we look at a few of these e-commerce sites and see what you think about them and then we’ll carry on talking around the more general issues around e-commerce as well. Excuse me, I’ll just set this up. Okay, where shall we start, what kind of site shall we look at? On my bookmark  CD Now and Amazon dot com 

R: Oh, let’s try the CD Now, I’ve heard of that one.

PL: Okay. I haven’t got speakers on this, it’s not a ( ) machine so I can’t show you the sound selection, but you can  here it is. What do you think of this site - do you want to have a go? Have a fiddle around with it.

R: Yeah  I’m sure this is one I used before, or I’ve used one like it. So  see if they’ve got anything  I’ve been told have been deleted, I’ll see if they’ve got any of those.

PL: So this is something that you can’t get from a ‘real’ record store  

R: Yeah  okay. Hmm - that’s the one I’m after, oh and this one too  unless  does no picture mean they haven’t got it - presumably 

PL: No, let’s click on it and have a look. Now that’s interesting, they don’t have 

R: See - nine dollars fifty is  over here they’re like 15 pounds.

PL: Yeah. You have to pay postage as well but - you can have, I think, 2 CDs for the same price in the postage.  R: Oh right.

PL:   so it’s about 3 dollars or so. Is that it?

R: Yeah, looks like it’s  when there’s nothing to say it’s not available so presumably it’s in stock.

PL: So what do you think - you got, pretty quickly, to something you wanted there I suppose didn’t you?  R: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I mean that’s something that’s good about  it terms of filtering information  it’s a pretty good method. And the fact that it can be updated quickly  I mean this is a fairly old record, but if you’re looking through some kind of catalogue book then it’s obviously much more updated than a book form 

PL: Right, right... you don’t know if it’s still available when you get there, a catalogue is not  And what about the link to information like the reviews 
 R: Yeah, that’s good.

PL: And do you think you would read those or do you think you’d just ?

R: I’m reading them now  (laughs)

PL: Oh, okay. These are selected from the trade press but you  like some sites allow listeners or readers to write reviews into the site and you can link to more about the music or the artist or 

R: Related artists 

PL: Ah, now I wonder what that means 

R: well it could mean anything from people on the same record label to  er people the band members listen to 

PL: Yeah. Well these, they say, are similar artists 

R: Oh, here we go  ‘Roots and Influences’ - quite handy actually...

PL: So you could trace and sample all kinds of music, but the roots and influences idea is an interesting one. Yeah, okay. So that’s all fairly straightforward then and not too bad  Ah, ‘Album Adviser’, now this is a bit of intelligence software 

R: Oh, I see - if you like that then you might like this too.

PL: That’s right. I think it’s a fairly simple correlational thing at the moment, but it’s this kind of thing that Websites are working on at the moment using data-mining techniques and some Artificial Intelligence techniques to try and  based on the kinds of things you’ve been looking at while you’ve been on-site. So that it’s not just simple correlations but it takes some data in from you as well. Does it make sense?

R: Yeah, kind of. I mean it says at the top, ‘People who’ve bought this album’ - the one I was looking at, ‘have also bought these albums’.

PL: Oh, so this is based on data-mining analysis of their own sales basically. I wonder if that’s listed in correlational order - it might be mightn’t it? So you get that  lower ones further down. So that seemed to work reasonably well, and it’s based on a particular album then, not a particular artist - the analysis is at the level of the album, people who bought this particular album. That’s interesting. I suppose that sort of thing breaks down when you get into generic purchases, like there were some groups that go across categories, that would throw up stuff that wasn’t generic  but that would generally seem to make sense. And if you actually decide to buy here you get an account created so that when you come back on you can be recognised and they build up a profile of your purchases over time and that will finesse that  you can see that data-mining programme will be finessed somewhat over time. They don’t know who you are yet so they’re using basic correlations with purchase.

R: So presumably it sells pictures based on your previous purchases, it’s kind of like a Safeway’s ABC customer card.

PL: yeah, yeah. Well the idea I think first developed in relation to the customer cards but clearly on the Web it can take on a sort of 

R: It’s more natural, it seems 

PL: it fits the technology quite well doesn’t it?  R: Exactly, yeah, yeah.

PL: Are there any do you think, about that kind of service developing?
 
R: Yeah, I don’t really know, I never... I never took part in the customer card type thing.

PL: Right, why not?

R: I don’t know, I just don’t really like the idea of helping them out with their market research like that and they come and make it seem like they’re doing you a favour - and in a sense they are, I mean they can make that case, but er  I don’t believe it’s out of the goodness of their hearts, they’re just being kind (laughs) - they’re just trying to get more money out of you.

PL: Well sure, there’s a thin line isn’t there between gaining information from you and involving you. So from that point of view, the more involved  you can see from their point of view it’s a virtuous circle, that if you get more involved then the services get more sophisticated - you’ll spend more money, yeah. But it’s like a... fro their point of view it’s like a... well, you know, is it manipulation or is it some sort of agreement, that’s the debate.

R: Well I guess it’s not an agreement cos I didn’t agree to it 

PL: Well that’s true 

R: So that leaves manipulation (laughs) 

PL: They’re not giving you much control, you can’t switch off the analysis in that sense when you visit these sites  do you think there should be, do you think they should give more control to the consumer? Cos it sounds like you’re happy staying anonymous as a shopper basically, whereas all these services mean that the companies know more about you basically.

R: Mmm  it’s not really that I’m  how can I express this  it’s not that I object to er my details being public in a sense, it’s more that I object to helping them milk more money out of  it’s really the process more than my privacy. I mean obviously they’re related but 

PL: Yeah, in this case the root in is through personal information isn’t it and they are totally overlapping. Right, so you’re not so concerned about the invasive side of it in terms of privacy, but you’re more concerned about the usage - whether it’s fair use of that data.

R: Yeah.

PL: But don’t you think that’s the way things are going generally, not just with shopping but 

R: Yeah, yeah I do.

PL: So do you feel uncomfortable about that as a general trend?

R: I don’t feel that uncomfortable about it because I more or less separate myself from it entirely so erm  so, I mean - yeah, I feel uncomfortable about it as a general trends but on the other hand I think I’m external to that process, as external as anyone can be.  PL: Right, so you try to unhook yourself from that as much as possible, you don’t become a part of these  by denying them information, by not using a credit card  how is one going to do this, what, you sort of live within  I mean, obviously you buy things 

R: Yeah, obviously I buy things, yeah, but I think there’s a lot to be said for not just buying indiscriminately and  I guess it’s a variation on one of the standard arguments for vegetarianism, that if you just don’t  by not buying those products, you just don’t have anything to do with that industry...

PL: Yeah, no no no. That’s interesting. That’s interesting.

R: And there’s also the secondary effect that erm if people start talking to you about it or start observing what you’re doing then they can start to think, ‘Hm, actually I think that as well, maybe I shouldn’t do whatever it is that I do without thinking about it.

PL: Right, right. And do you think that’s possible, that they’ll be a backlash against some of these things?  R: Er  yeah, yeah, absolutely. I mean I know from speaking to friends and so on that erm there’s certainly an element of that. And I think lot of people, it just doesn’t really seem to bother - well, fair enough, I guess I disagree with them but  other people seem to take issue with the sort of things we’ve been talking about but see no sense in trying to resist the tide you know. But I can’t really agree with that. There’s the same kind of person that doesn’t vote presumably.

PL: Right, and this is what I’m asking you, is this... what kind of life position is this. Is this a kind of removing yourself  I mean you’re not against technology are you?  R: Oh no, no. Absolutely not.

PL: So it’s not like a simple Luddite position 

R: Oh. no, no.

PL: I’m trying to characterise what this position is, it’s a subtle form of protest I suppose, but it’s also an opting out of certain things 

R: Mmm  yeah, yeah.

PL: Okay, well that’s interesting. Again, getting back to what we were saying about the Web, I mean the... isn’t it possible for the Web to support that as well as support your position as it were, the ‘Oh just give it to me all’ consumer, basically.

R: Yeah, I think it is. I mean I wouldn’t want to kind of confuse the message for the messenger or whatever the cliché is, but erm  so I’m not opposed to Internet technology, I’m not opposed to genetic technology, it’s just that it’s recruited for certain purposes that I don’t want to have any part of.

PL: Okay, okay  do you see this very much a privately held position, or is it something that you share with other people or...?  R: I think erm, I don’t think I know anyone who shares my views entirely. I know quite a few people who seem to agree with what I say but then behave as if they don’t agree, and I think a lot of people just regard it as bizarre - just some weird hippie or something 

R: You haven’t got enough hair to be a hippie but 

R: I’ve tried to point this out, believe me (laugh)

PL: But that raises an question you see because what I’m trying to explore with you is in a sense the difficulties of resistance here and the difficulties of really articulating a clear critical position. I mean the hippies against the background of the Cold War and very normative American and European societies, a lot of inequality etc. etc., clear social exclusions and a very normative conception of society. I mean there was a very clear system to which a clearly opposed position was very easy to work out in one sense, a critical position was given. That’s not so easy here is it, isn’t that what we’re saying? And as a social movement it’s  are you part of a social movement, you see the hippies were part of a life politics movement...

R: Erm, I don’t know I’ve always found it difficult to  maybe I would be if I knew other people that thought in the same way...

PL: (laughing) You could put out an ad on the Internet Wanted, a life political movement to join 

R: No, I mean I’ve certainly never felt any urge to try and find like-minded people because I think a lot of the time that’s for support and assurance that you’re doing the right thing and all that sort of thing which I’ve never really needed anyone else to tell me that, I’m doing what’s right for me - not saying I’m doing what’s right, I’m just saying I’m doing what’s right for me. Which basically boils down to being in( ) - whether you’re comfortable with the way you’re behaving or not, yeah, as I say you don’t really need external approval for that.

PL: No, sure. Now there are some alternative sites in consumption. Let’s see if we can find one now.

R: Have you come across Ad Busters?

PL: Yeah, yeah shall we have a look at them in a minute, if we can find one. Okay, here we are. What do you think of this site compared to the CD Now one we just looked at?

R: Mmm let’s have a look  books  oh I’ve heard of this one too, McLibel have you read that?  PL: No I haven’t read McLibel - McLibel have also got a site...

R: Oh, yeah, yeah  I’ve been there 

PL: So you’ve visited the McLibel site and you’ve read some of these books so you are in a sense part of the 

R: ( ) vegan  yeah, I think some of these are okay  look at this one, ‘The cruelty-free guide to Amsterdam’ for example, is presumably a guide to living in Amsterdam without contributing to processes or industries that you’re opposed to right, so I guess this is a support network of sorts 

PL: Yeah. And these are reviews of books I suppose, so it’s an information site 

R: Yeah  is that a separate link...? No 

PL: No, it’s got many links has it 

R: Mmm publications and journals  resources... presumably you can buy stuff 

PL: I don’t think so, I think it’s information - but then you have to go to Amazon dot com to  and these are reviews of those books...

R: These are the same ones aren’t they?

PL: Yeah, it’s the same list again, you can get more details about them.

R: Yeah, it’s a bit repetitive isn’t it... and it goes on and on and on... just go to the bottom and see what the next links are  it’s very linear isn’t it  new offers 

PL: So this it’s the same... it’s not even hierarchically embedded so that you can go into one and then follow  okay. But who do you think’s going to use this kind of site, it’s not going to be linked to Sainsbury’s Website is it?  R: Well no, no. The thing with this kind of thing is there’s always a danger of preaching to the converted. I mean, I could quite  I’d be quite open to visit a Website called Vegan Village but I think it’s fairly unlikely - this sounds rather arrogant actually - but it’s fairly unlikely that I’d read anything, certainly within these first few pages that I hadn’t already come across elsewhere, which is why I’d be vegan in the first place and hence open to visiting a site like this  yeah. I guess it’s quite good for... this’d be great if you were a kind of lazy journalist doing an article about vegans or something.

PL: Oh sure, I think it’s a great resource for journalists  and that’s the end of the site, it really is just a  

R: And there’s a list of books  yeah, I guess it might be useful if you’re hunting for a specific book, you’ve heard the title and you might end up at a site like this, see if you can finds out a bit more about it  they also have some tips about...

PL: Right, what about interconnectivity thought, this sort of - I was saying, jokingly, I don’t think Sainsbury’s will have a link to this site, but is the campaigning going to get hooked in to the consumption... that’s the question. I mean people who are likely to visit Sainsbury’s site  - I mean just the sort of ordinary shopper who’s not particularly got an axe to grind, are they likely also to be equally likely to check out ?

R: I shouldn’t think so. Erm  I think the nature of this... I don’t know what would you call it - counter-culture or something I don’t know, whatever it is, non-mainstream sort of lifestyle tends to fairly naturally be external to the main structure that it’s opposed to. It’s kind of a fundamental problem really. I guess McLibel is a good example of what happens if you go straight in there and address the people that you really want to address, they’re getting sued by the company 
 PL: Sure, sure. But they can’t stop people processing whatever they want to on a Website as McLibel are now doing of course, they’ve got a very active Website.

R: But this is the thing, I mean who’s going to visit? You’d have to be kind of anti-MacDonalds to visit in the first place 

PL: That’s the point yeah, that’s the question. So that raises some interesting issues because there’s a lot of talk about the Internet being a sort of chaotic space and that’s the beauty of it and that’s the value of it, but the way we’re talking now, perhaps a bit pessimistically, is that people are going to use a sort of stripped-down version of the service, they’ll go and visit the sites that they want to shop at - do you think that’s the way it’s going?

R: Oh yeah, I’ve absolutely no doubt about that at all. I mean people will tend to go for material if it will reinforce the views they already hold. I mean I really can’t imagine that I would just randomly log-on one day and start hunting round for you know, what’s the latest burger chain and how does it compare to MacDonalds and Burger King and you know and then low and behold and reach such a glowing review that I’d change my dietary habits entirely and   you know, I just don’t think it works like that. I think it’s the same when you have a huge selection of anything really, I mean if you go into Foils, if you go into... I wouldn’t go down to the mineral mining section of the geography floor and start ferreting around and see if anything catches my eye...

PL: No, sure. I suppose the argument is that somehow we will have access to that space through things like intelligence search engines which we all know don’t work very well at the moment but 

R: Well that’s going to reinforce that selective process rather than broaden it isn’t it. I mean we saw from that CD site, it wasn’t saying, ‘Oh I notice you’re stuck in this rut of always listening to this type of music, why don’t you try something entirely different like this?’

PL: Exactly. Now why doesn’t it do that do you think, why is it looking to complement what you already do as it were and complement you... the element of challenge in this type of marketing isn’t very direct is it  that’s right, it’s looking to find out what your preferences are and try and sort of gently push you in that direction, make you offers 

R: Yeah, the less work the consumer has to do , the more likely they are to part with their money.

PL: Exactly, exactly, exactly.

R: So I would imagine that the tendency would be for a narrowing down in that sense rather than a broadening out.

PL: And I suppose also the larger companies get in there first basically, they’ve got the resources 

END OF SIDE ONE

PL: Now we’ll have a look at different kinds of sites and see what you think of them and what the issues are around them. 

R: Oh is this the auction place?

PL: Yeah.

R: Right. I’ve seen the billboards for this one.

PL: Yeah, they’ve been advertising it on the tube and things.

R: So they’re expecting it to be a kind of Loot on-line sort of thing is that it?

PL: Well Loot do have ( ) portions although they also have 
 R: Ah, I’ve used Loot, sorry I totally forgot about that, but that was to sell things not to buy things.

PL: Ah, okay. But you used the Website to  oh, okay  it’s not bad is it?

R: No, I found it pretty useful, certainly less of a palaver than doing the paper version.

PL: This is a bit slow this site for some reason. Here we are. So this is the Q Excel site and you can choose categories of goods and they’ve got some ongoing auctions.

R: Oh I see, and what’s the 

PL: And they’ve got some featured auctions but these are  if you want computing or cars or... choose one of those.

R: So if I wanted say musical instruments  

PL: No auction was found for that, try more categories  Yeah, so these are on-line auctions that are products that companies are say moving on or individuals are selling. Ah, here we are 

R: Separate ones for StarWars and StarTrek memorabilia 

PL:  dolls, die cast models  what an interesting category this is... electronics... entertainments  instruments, there we are 

R: Instruments  the top is the best one... CDs 

PL: Lots of CDs going... I wonder who’s using this site 

R: I don’t know, it looks like a DJ’s resource looking to buy bulk quantities 

PL: Yeah, yeah right.

R: Is there a car boot sale emerging?
 PL: Well I don’t know if it’s really a culture emerging yet but these sites are there and people are beginning to use them. There we are... that’s not how you spell mahogany is it?  R: No  are these chilli peppers indicating how hot the items are?  PL: I think it might be yeah  Yamaha oho  let’s have a look at it... so these are the British ones offered here - that’s for the country.

R: Oh right. Why did they choose to have that flag circular, it makes it look very un-flag-like.

PL: Oh okay, what is this a Yamaha portasound keyboard 

R: Click to see 

PL: Ooh! So there we are, it’s a photo of it. Yeah close it up to get back. So that’s the current bid... what about ‘more information’ where does that take you?

R: Oh that’s what I was just going to ask - ‘Auction ends 20th’. So it is always date locked like that?

PL: Yes, yes and you can make a bid and you can put a limit so you stay in automatically, you know you can say well I’ll make this bid and I’ll raise my limit here - oh you can’t 

R: Maybe you need to highlight it 

PL: Oh yeah. Okay, there seems to be a problem there. So I suppose if you were worried about the price you take that product and go and research it at Dixons’ site or wherever sells them and find out whether that was a reasonable price. That’s quite good, I’d like to buy a keyboard - can’t tell from the description whether it’s got a sensitive keyboard or 

R: Here you are, information’s down here 

PL: Ah, you see it doesn’t have touch-sensitive keys  no good.

R: This is maybe more the kind of memory I have of the early days of the Internet.

PL: It’s very slow isn’t it?

R: You make a decision  it used to be so bad - you’d wait for a minute or two and then it would crash  it was really infuriating. I clicked on ‘back’ and it’s brought us to here. I want to get back to that list...

PL: Ah, here we are, what are you after 

R: Oh, ‘Wanted bass guitar, amplifier one pound’ - fairly unlikely to get what they’re after I would think.

PL: Trumpet  electric organ. Oh right so that’s how many bids they’re had  so no-one’s bid for these things at all.

R: No.

PL: But yeah, it’s quite a slow site this one. So this is I suppose a bit more true to the earlier nature of the Internet. It’s putting people in touch with other, it’s 

R: Yeah, yeah. So presumably they can’t take commission from the sales  oh look Italian 

PL: Ah, so cos we’re from Britain we got the British ones first  it is slow isn’t it. And do you think there are any other issues about regulation, do you think there’s any role for government in relation to this development?

R: Mmm I haven’t really thought about that. Regulation about what in particular?

PL: Well people are clearly going to have access to a much greater range of goods from different suppliers than they have in the real world. And then there’s this issue of the use of private information in consumption, that’s got new dimensions to it  those sorts of issues. You know the issue of the balance of power between the consumer and the retailer. That’s an important aspect of policy.

R: I don’t think I know enough about what the current regulations are to be able to make any useful remarks about that.

PL: Okay, let me show you a different kind of site then. So this is a site for managing share buying - ooh! - which Netscape doesn’t like at all. Let’s go in again - see this still happens  it seems happier this time  so this has been quite heavily touted cos you can cut out the broker by buying shares directly yourself so you cut the costs of consumption and it gives you a lot of information about prices of different stocks and shares and you can make your own decisions. So that’s the idea of bringing more people into consumption, giving them more information, enabling them, cutting out the profit and the middle man to increase efficiency and so on. So you can get quotes and charts  market indicators - what’s going on in the FTSI and what not. On-line training demo - shall we try that... so who so you want to buy shares in?

R: No-one springs to mind 

PL: Come on here’s your chance to become a fully-fledged 

R: Oh, crikey! Erm, let’s pretend I’m not me and say ( ) just cos I want to see how they’re doing 

PL: Oh, that doesn’t look too good does it. I don’t know what happened there. I think Netscape doesn’t like this. But you can see the idea , that you can find out instantly share prices. I mean, what do you think of that?

R: Well, it’s useful - again I can see how that might have advantages over printed versions of the same thing.

PL: Yeah, it’s on-line, it’s updateable, you can interrogate it 

R: And presumably it’s much easier to cross-reference and that sort of thing 

PL: Exactly, exactly.

R: I guess it’s just a fairly straightforward extension of data-basing technology isn’t it. And again, it’s the purposes to which it’s put that sort of sticks in my core a bit. It’s all the drives to higher efficiency and cutting out middle men and putting people directly in touch, it’s all in the name of that extra little profit margin and it’s then that I kind of lose interest really.

PL: But market efficiencies lead to... I mean the Holy Grail is both  you decrease costs so you can both decrease prices and increase profits, I mean that’s 

R: Yeah. Until you end up with just this huge machine harvesting cash  I guess if that’s the goal of people’s lives then this’ll make it easier but, it’s not a goal I share  a perfectly efficient way of amassing capital  I guess if you’re into that sort of thing then it’s great. I can’t help thinking there could be more beneficial uses for it.

PL: Yeah sure, sure. Well thank you, that’s good.













